About three-quarters of self-reported voters ( 76 % ) say it was `` very easy '' for them to vote in the November elections . Another 16 % say voting was `` somewhat easy . '' Just 8 % say voting was very or somewhat difficult . Before the election , registered voters who said they planned to vote were somewhat less confident voting would be easy for them personally . In October , just 44 % said they expected it to be very easy and 40 % said they expected it would be somewhat easy for them to vote .
With this in mind , some of the groups that have already been growing in recent years may be primed for continued growth . This includes people with no religious affiliation : The median age of adults who say their religion is `` nothing in particular '' is 38 , while for atheists and agnostics it is 34 .
At a time when many Americans believe their personal information is less secure and are concerned with how companies and the government use their personal data , a substantial share of the public has opted out of using a product or service because of privacy concerns , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 . About half ( 52 % ) of U.S. adults said they decided recently not to use a product or service because they were worried about how much personal information would be collected about them . There are some distinctions among certain Americans . For instance , people 's own experience with data breaches in the last 12 months is a factor . Those who said someone attempted to open a line of credit or apply for a loan using their name were more likely than those who did not experience this to say they decided not to use a product or service out of privacy concerns ( 64 % vs. 51 % ) . A similar pattern exists when comparing those who said someone took over their social media or email account without their permission and those who did not experience this ( 63 % vs. 51 % ) . And those who said someone put fraudulent charges on their debit card or credit card were more likely than those who did not experience this to share this concern ( 56 % vs. 51 % ) . Overall , adults who experienced any of these three data breaches were more likely than those who did not to avoid products or services out of privacy concerns ( 57 % vs. 50 % ) .
Many Democrats and Republicans associate negative characteristics with members of the other party – and positive traits with their own . Fully 70 % of Democrats say Republicans are more `` closed-minded '' than other Americans . Nearly as many Democrats ( 67 % ) say their fellow Democrats are more `` open-minded . '' For Republicans , no single critique of Democrats stands out . But about half of Republicans ( 52 % ) view Democrats as more closed-minded than other Americans , while nearly as many say Democrats are more immoral ( 47 % ) , lazier ( 46 % ) and more dishonest ( 45 % ) . Republicans also see the members of their own party as more hard-working ( 59 % ) and more moral ( 51 % ) than other Americans .
A 47-nation survey finds global public opinion increasingly wary of the world 's dominant nations and disapproving of their leaders . Anti-Americanism is extensive , as it has been for the past five years . At the same time , the image of China has slipped significantly among the publics of other major nations . Opinion about Russia is mixed , but confidence in its president , Vladimir Putin , has declined sharply . In fact , the Russian leader 's negatives have soared to the point that they mirror the nearly worldwide lack of confidence in George W. Bush .
Overall , roughly six-in-ten American adults accept at least one of these New Age beliefs . Specifically , four-in-ten believe in psychics and that spiritual energy can be found in physical objects , while somewhat smaller shares express belief in reincarnation ( 33 % ) and astrology ( 29 % ) . But New Age beliefs are not necessarily replacing belief in traditional forms of religious beliefs or practices . While eight-in-ten Christians say they believe in God as described in the Bible , six-in-ten believe in one or more of the four New Age beliefs analyzed here , ranging from 47 % of evangelical Protestants to roughly seven-in-ten Catholics and Protestants in the historically black tradition .
Post-breakup , girls are more likely to erase their ex from their social media lives . Some 44 % of teen girls with dating experience have blocked or unfriended an ex on social media , compared with 31 % of boys . Girls who date ( 46 % ) are also more likely than boys ( 30 % ) to delete or untag photos from a previous relationship .
Along with social networking , an equally popular use of the internet is staying in touch with friends and family . A median of 86 % of internet users across the emerging and developing nations surveyed say they have used the internet this way in the past year .
On a percentage basis , all 10 countries that are projected to experience the biggest growth in population by 2100 are in Africa , led by Niger ( 581 % increase ) , Angola ( 473 % ) and Tanzania ( 378 % ) . The biggest percentage decreases in population are expected in Eastern European nations , led by Albania ( -62 % ) , Serbia ( -52 % ) , and Moldova and Bosnia-Herzegovina ( both -50 % ) .
For a more recent analysis , see `` ‘ Particularly good days ' are common in Africa , Latin America and the U.S . ''
The survey finds little support for reducing spending on policing . Just 25 % of Americans say spending on policing in their area should be decreased , with only 12 % saying it should be decreased a lot ; another 14 % say it should be reduced a little .
Americans ' tendency to talk about the coronavirus outbreak also differs depending on how closely they are following news about it – and where they get that news . Around six-in-ten adults who follow COVID-19 news very closely ( 58 % ) say they talk about the outbreak with other people most or almost all of the time . That compares with around a third of those who follow COVID-19 news fairly closely ( 36 % ) and around a fifth who follow coronavirus news not much or not at all ( 19 % ) . Among those who follow coronavirus news not much or not at all , 30 % say they hardly ever or never talk about the virus with other people .
In other areas , however , there is less unity . For instance , a Pew Research Center survey of Muslims in 39 countries asked Muslims whether they want sharia law , a legal code based on the Quran and other Islamic scripture , to be the official law of the land in their country . Responses on this question vary widely . Nearly all Muslims in Afghanistan ( 99 % ) and most in Iraq ( 91 % ) and Pakistan ( 84 % ) support sharia law as official law . But in some other countries , especially in Eastern Europe and Central Asia – including Turkey ( 12 % ) , Kazakhstan ( 10 % ) and Azerbaijan ( 8 % ) – relatively few favor the implementation of sharia law .
Views of parties ' commitment to fair elections . While 62 % of Americans say the Democratic Party is at least somewhat committed to fair and accurate elections , just 23 % say it is very committed to this objective . A narrower majority ( 56 % ) says the Republican Party is very or somewhat committed to fair and accurate elections , with 20 % saying the GOP is very committed . In part , these views reflect deeply cynical views among members of both parties about the other party . Majorities of both Democrats ( 64 % ) and Republicans ( 56 % ) say the opposing party has little or no commitment to fair and accurate elections in the U.S .
At the local public radio level , an analysis of the public filings provided by 123 of the largest news-oriented licensees ( organizations that operate local public radio stations ) shows that in 2017 – the last year for which reliable data is available – total revenue for this group was $ 904.7 million .
Attention to the debate over Medicare is limited so far . Just one-in-five Americans ( 20 % ) say they have heard a lot about a proposal to change Medicare into a program that would give future participants a credit toward purchasing private health insurance coverage ; half ( 50 % ) have heard a little about it , and 28 % have heard nothing at all . Awareness is particularly low among younger Americans – fully 41 % of adults under 30 , and 34 % of those ages 30 - 49 , have heard nothing at all about this proposal . And politically , Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say they have heard a lot about this proposal ( 26 % vs. 16 % ) . The lack of awareness goes a long way toward explaining some of the contradictory views many Americans hold on this issue . In particular , people under age 30 are the only major demographic group in which significantly more say they favor ( 46 % ) than oppose ( 28 % ) this proposed change . Yet this same cohort is far more likely to say the Democratic Party ( 49 % ) not the Republican Party ( 34 % ) can do a better job on this issue .
For example , three-in-ten conservative Republican voters say there is a good chance they would vote for Ted Cruz ( 30 % ) or Scott Walker ( 30 % ) , while just 10 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say this about either man . About twice as many GOP conservatives ( 25 % ) as moderates and liberals ( 13 % ) say there is a good chance they would support Ben Carson . There is a narrower gap in support for Jeb Bush : 25 % of conservative Republican voters and 17 % of moderate and liberal Republican voters say there is a good chance they would vote for the former Florida governor . Chris Christie is relatively well known among both conservative and moderate and liberal Republican voters , but draws little support from either group . Just 11 % of conservative Republicans and 6 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say they see a good chance of supporting Christie ; 40 % and 37 % , respectively , say there is no chance they would vote for the New Jersey governor .
There continue to be wide partisan and ideological differences in opinions about the Supreme Court 's ideological leanings . A majority of liberal Democrats ( 56 % ) say the court is conservative ; just 12 % of conservative Republicans say the same . Nearly half of conservative Republicans ( 48 % ) see the court as liberal , compared with 8 % of liberal Democrats . About four-in-ten conservative Republicans ( 38 % ) and 31 % of liberal Democrats say the court is middle of the road .
Fully 65 % of African Americans say the police have gone too far in responding to the shooting 's aftermath . Whites are divided : 33 % say the police have gone too far , 32 % say the police response has been about right , while 35 % offer no response .
Roughly half of Americans or more were able to correctly identify whether three of the six sources do their own reporting : ABC News ( 56 % ) , The Wall Street Journal ( 52 % ) and Facebook ( 51 % ) . At the same time , though , fewer than four-in-ten were able to correctly answer whether Google News ( 31 % ) , Apple News ( 26 % ) or HuffPost ( 23 % ) do their own news reporting . ( The survey was conducted before BuzzFeed acquired HuffPost . )
Most Americans today continue to oppose building a wall along the entire border with Mexico : 61 % express opposition to the wall , while 36 % are in favor . These attitudes have changed little over the past year . Differences across demographic and political groups remain stark . While more whites say they are opposed ( 54 % ) than say they are in favor ( 43 % ) of the U.S.-Mexico border wall , they are far less likely than blacks and Hispanics to oppose the proposed wall . Roughly three-quarters of both blacks ( 76 % ) and Hispanics ( 76 % ) say they oppose the proposal , while just about one-in-five favor the wall .
The new survey finds little change in the public 's sympathies in the dispute between Israel and the Palestinians , or in views of Israel 's prime minister , Benjamin Netanyahu . About a third of Americans ( 31 % ) say they sympathize with Israel a lot in its dispute with the Palestinians , while 34 % say they sympathize with Israel some . Just 11 % sympathize a great deal with the Palestinians , and 35 % have some sympathy for the Palestinians . These views have not changed much since last August .
Majorities in most of the 33 non-U.S. countries surveyed disapprove of the U.S. increasing tariffs on imported goods from other countries ( median 68 % disapproval ) , its withdrawal from international climate change agreements ( 66 % ) , and its construction of a wall on the border between the U.S. and Mexico ( 60 % ) . Trump 's position of allowing fewer immigrants into the U.S. and his administration 's withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal also are met with negativity : Across all countries surveyed , medians of 55 % and 52 % , respectively , disapprove of these steps .
One spot of unity in an otherwise divided environmental policy landscape is that the vast majority of Americans support the concept of expanding both solar and wind power . The public is more closely divided when it comes to expanding fossil fuel energies such as coal mining , offshore oil and gas drilling , and hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural gas . While there are substantial party and ideological divides over increasing fossil fuel and nuclear energy sources , strong majorities of all political groups support more solar and wind production .
Rather than crushing them with too much information and making it hard to find useful material , most Americans say the internet and cell phones have brought benefits in learning , sharing and diversifying the flow of information into their lives . A new survey by the Pew Research Center finds that the vast majority of Americans believe their use of the web helps them learn new things , stay better informed on topics that matter to them , and increases their capacity to share ideas and creations with others . Online Americans especially highlight how the internet and cell phones have made them better informed about products and services available for sale , national and international news , and popular culture . Asked if their internet use affected their being better informed on these issues compared with five years ago :
As the public 's views of global threats have changed , so too have opinions about America 's role in solving world problems . On balance , more continue to think the United States does too much , rather than too little , to help solve world problems . But the share saying the U.S. does too little to address global problems has nearly doubled – from 17 % to 31 % – since last November , while the percentage saying it is doing too much has fallen from 51 % to 39 % .
6636 % of the nation 's young adults ages 18 to 31—the so-called Millennial generation— now live in their parents ' home , the highest share in at least four decades .
The new survey finds wide awareness about the census across all demographic groups . A majority of U.S. adults ( 54 % ) say they have heard something recently – within the last month or so – about the census . Adults younger than 30 are least likely to have heard something recently , while those ages 65 and older are more than twice as likely to say the same . Men are more likely than women to say so , as are whites when compared with black and Hispanic adults .
Yet on another dimension of personal polarization – having friends who generally share your politics – consistent conservatives stand out . Fully 63 % of consistent conservatives say most of their close friends share their political views , compared with 49 % of consistent liberals . Moreover , far more on the right ( 50 % ) than left ( 35 % ) say it is important to live in a place where most people share their political views . While these `` ideological silos '' are more common on the right than the left , what is equally striking is how little it matters for those with a mix of liberal and conservative views . Just 25 % of those with mixed ideological views say most of their friends share their views and just 22 % say it is important to live in a community where most share their views .
The Brazilian public expects a recovery soon . While recent economic forecasts point to a slow recovery , the majority of the Brazilian public remains confident that the economy will bounce back in the near future . Nearly seven-in-ten Brazilians ( 69 % ) say the country 's economic situation will improve over the next 12 months , with roughly a third ( 34 % ) believing it will improve a lot . Individuals with higher levels of education are less optimistic about the future , however . About half ( 51 % ) of Brazilians who completed college believe the economy will improve , compared to 71 % of those without university degrees .
White and Hispanic Catholics are very different politically . Nearly six-in-ten White Catholic registered voters ( 57 % ) identify with or lean toward the Republican Party , marking a big shift since 2008 , when four-in-ten ( 41 % ) supported the GOP . Most Hispanic Catholic voters ( 68 % ) , meanwhile , identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , a share that has remained fairly stable in the past decade . ( Two-thirds of Catholic registered voters are White , while a quarter are Hispanic , according to data collected in 2018 and 2019 . ) Catholics ' views of Trump are clearly divided by race and ethnicity . In a poll conducted in late July and early August – amid a surge in U.S. coronavirus cases – 54 % of White Catholics overall said they approve of Trump 's performance as president , but 69 % of Hispanic Catholics said they disapprove of the way he is handling his job . And 59 % of White Catholic registered voters said they would vote for Trump , or lean that way , if the election were held today ; among Hispanic Catholic registered voters , 65 % said they would vote for Biden today . There was a similar divide in the last presidential election : 64 % of White Catholics voted for Trump in 2016 , according to a Pew Research Center survey of validated voters conducted at the time , while 78 % of Hispanic Catholics voted for Clinton .
3 Worldwide , Jews are the most likely to live alone ( 10 % ) , while Muslims and Hindus are the least likely to do so ( 1 % for each ) . These religious differences also surface within individual countries ; in Canada , for example , Christians ( 12 % ) are four times more likely than Hindus ( 3 % ) to live alone . Overall , living alone is very rare in most parts of the world ; only 4 % of people live in solo households .
Ahead of Donald Trump 's scheduled press conference in New York City on Wednesday , the public continues to give the president-elect low marks for how he is handling the transition process . Most disapprove of the job he has done outlining his plans for the country 's future and there remain widespread concerns about his potential conflicts of interest – though these concerns are somewhat lower than they were a month ago . In addition , Trump is at odds with the public over his tax returns : A wide majority says he has a responsibility to release his tax returns , a step he has yet to take . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults , finds that 39 % approve of the job President-elect Trump has done so far explaining his policies and plans for the future to the American people , while a larger share ( 55 % ) say they disapprove . Overall ratings have changed little since December and remain highly partisan : 72 % of Republicans and Republican leaners approve of the job he is doing , compared with just 13 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
In the eight Western European publics surveyed , a median of just 22 % say belief in God is necessary to be moral , while in the six Eastern European nations studied , a median of 33 % share the same view . Prior research establishes the European continent as increasingly secular on the whole , though among Europeans , there are notable differences between Eastern and Western countries in attitudes toward religion and religious minorities . Less than half in both Canada and the U.S. say belief in God is necessary to be moral ( 26 % and 44 % , respectively ) . ( For more on religion in the U.S. , go to `` In a Politically Polarized Era , Sharp Divides in Both Partisan Coalitions . '' ) By contrast , nearly everyone surveyed in Indonesia and the Philippines ( 96 % each ) draws a connection between belief in God and having good values . And nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) in India say the same . But in East Asia , South Koreans are somewhat split on this question ( 53 % say it is necessary , 46 % say it is not ) , while smaller shares in Japan ( 39 % ) and Australia ( 19 % ) take the view that it 's necessary to believe in God to be a moral person .
Americans ' expectations for the year ahead include an effective treatment or cure for COVID-19 , as well as a vaccine to prevent the disease : 83 % and 73 % of U.S. adults , respectively , say these developments will definitely or probably occur . At the same time , 83 % of adults expect another coronavirus outbreak within the year , and 69 % expect the focus on the coronavirus to delay progress on other disease treatments .
Along with communicating extensively via untethered mobile devices , Twitter users are more likely to consume news and information on these devices as well . For many Twitter users , learning about and sharing relevant and recent nuggets of information is a primary utility of the service . While Twitter users are just as likely as others to consume news on any given day , they are more likely to consume it on mobile devices and less likely to engage with news via more traditional outlets . Twitterers are less likely to read a printed copy of a newspaper , but more likely to read a newspaper online , and more likely to read a news story on a cell phone or on a smart phone . A similar pattern holds for video news consumption ; on any given day , Twitter users are just as likely as others to watch news on a TV , and just as likely to watch video news on a computer , but more likely to watch a news video on a cell phone or on a smart phone .
In most developing economies , majorities say success is determined by outside forces , including 74 % in Bangladesh and 67 % in Ghana . Nicaraguans are the least likely to agree among developing countries .
Around two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say China has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak . Around three-quarters ( 78 % ) place a great deal or fair amount of the blame for the global spread of the coronavirus on the Chinese government 's initial handling of the COVID-19 outbreak in Wuhan .
Americans today are more likely to say they personally hope the United States will elect a female president in their lifetime – 45 % say this , up from 38 % in November 2014 . Half of the public says it does not matter to them if the U.S. elects a female president .
Hispanics are the youngest major racial or ethnic group in the United States . About one-third , or 17.9 million , of the nation 's Hispanic population is younger than 18 , and about a quarter , or 14.6 million , of all Hispanics are Millennials ( ages 18 to 33 in 2014 ) , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Altogether , nearly six-in-ten Hispanics are Millennials or younger .
Americans are more racially and ethnically diverse than in the past , and the U.S. is projected to be even more diverse in the coming decades . By 2055 , the U.S. will not have a single racial or ethnic majority . Much of this change has been ( and will be ) driven by immigration . Nearly 59 million immigrants have arrived in the U.S. in the past 50 years , mostly from Latin America and Asia . Today , a near-record 14 % of the country 's population is foreign born compared with just 5 % in 1965 . Over the next five decades , the majority of U.S. population growth is projected to be linked to new Asian and Hispanic immigration . American attitudes about immigration and diversity are supportive of these changes for the most part . More Americans say immigrants strengthen the country than say they burden it , and most say the U.S. 's increasing ethnic diversity makes it a better place to live . Asia has replaced Latin America ( including Mexico ) as the biggest source of new immigrants to the U.S . In a reversal of one of the largest mass migrations in modern history , net migration flows from Mexico to the U.S. turned negative between 2009 and 2014 , as more Mexicans went home than arrived in the U.S. And after rising steadily since 1990 , the unauthorized immigrant population has leveled off in recent years , falling to 11.3 million in 2014 from a high of 12.2 million in 2007 . Meanwhile , Asians are now the only major racial or ethnic group whose numbers are rising mainly because of immigration . And while African immigrants make up a small share of the U.S. immigrant population , their numbers are also growing steadily – roughly doubling every decade since 1970 .
Over the 50 presidential elections that have taken place since 1824 , the first election for which statewide popular votes were both determinative and reasonably reliably reported , there have been 187 instances in which a state was decided by less than 2 percentage points ( our definition of `` close '' for the purposes of this post ) . That 's an average of 3.74 states with close races per election .
Like U.S. adults overall , most Catholics said in the 2019 survey that they oppose overturning Roe v. Wade . Roughly two-thirds of Catholics ( 68 % ) said they do not want the Supreme Court to completely overturn the landmark decision , while almost three-in-ten ( 28 % ) said the ruling should be overturned . This gap was almost identical to the division in the U.S. public overall ( 70 % vs. 28 % ) . But opinions varied widely by religious affiliation : 89 % of unaffiliated Americans said Roe v. Wade should remain in place , compared with only 35 % of White evangelical Protestants .
The shares of U.S. adults who say they use the internet , use social media , own a smartphone or own a tablet computer are all nearly identical to the shares who said so in 2016 . The share who say they have broadband internet service at home currently stands at 65 % – nearly identical to the 67 % who said this in a survey conducted in summer 2015 . And when it comes to desktop or laptop ownership , there has actually been a small dip in the overall numbers over the last two years – from 78 % in 2016 to 73 % today . A contributing factor behind this slowing growth is that parts of the population have reached near-saturation levels of adoption of some technologies . Put simply , in some instances there just are n't many non-users left . For example , nine-in-ten or more adults younger than 50 say they go online or own a smartphone . And a similar share of those in higher-income households have laptops or desktops .
When it comes to the current rivalry between the U.S. and China , Germans and Americans are in slight disagreement on whether a conflict akin to the Cold War will occur . A majority of Americans ( 59 % ) think the U.S.-China rivalry will escalate into something like the Cold War between the U.S. and the Soviet Union that dominated geopolitics from the end of World War II until the collapse of the USSR in the early 1990s . Around four-in-ten Americans say this is unlikely . Germans are almost equally divided on this hypothetical scenario . About half ( 49 % ) say a Cold War-like confrontation is likely , while 47 % say it is unlikely .
A majority of rural residents perceive an urban-rural divide over values . About six-in-ten rural residents ( 58 % ) say the values of urban dwellers are very or somewhat different from theirs , while about half ( 53 % ) of urban residents say those in rural areas have values that do n't align with theirs .
The questions explored in this analysis , part of a survey conducted Feb. 4 to 15 , did not mention President Donald Trump or any other president by name . However , other questions in the survey asked about Trump specifically , including whether respondents consider him to be morally upstanding , honest or religious . Data from those sections of the survey show that Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say that `` morally upstanding '' and `` honest '' describe Trump at least fairly well . Republicans are also more likely to view Trump as at least somewhat religious . ( For the full set of findings , read the report . )
Eight of the 10 countries that are expected to gain the most people by 2100 are in Africa : Nigeria ( with the largest gain , 527 million ) , the Democratic Republic of the Congo , Tanzania , Ethiopia , Angola , Niger , Egypt and Sudan . ( This recent animation of the UN data shows African nations ' long-term rise up the population ranks . ) The two non-African nations on this list are Pakistan and the United States , which are projected to see population gains of 182 million and 103 million people , respectively .
The public also expresses more positive views of the Palestinian people than the government . While nearly half ( 46 % ) view the Palestinian people favorably , just 19 % have a favorable opinion of the Palestinian government .
Muslims are projected to be the world 's fastest-growing major religious group in the decades ahead . By 2035 , the number of babies born to Muslims is projected to modestly exceed births to Christians , mostly due to Muslims ' relatively young population and high fertility rates .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is , while far fewer ( 32 % ) say they like the amount of news they are getting , according to a Pew Research Center survey of more than 12,000 U.S. adults conducted in October and November of last year – the first survey in the Center 's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project . This feeling of news fatigue has n't escaped journalists either , some of whom have voiced their exhaustion with the news cycle and the seemingly endless stream of information . News fatigue is more widespread among the least engaged political news consumers . Nearly three-quarters of those who follow political and election news `` not too '' or `` not at all closely '' feel exhausted by the news ( 73 % ) , higher than the share among those who follow political news `` somewhat '' ( 66 % ) or `` very '' closely ( 56 % ) . A similar pattern emerges with engagement with politics more generally : Those who discuss politics a few times a month or less are 10 percentage points more likely to feel news fatigue than those who do so nearly every day ( 69 % vs. 59 % ) . Those who talk about politics a few times a week fall in between at 65 % . ( It should be noted that the question asked about fatigue about news generally , not specifically about political or election-related news . )
Similarly , self-described libertarians do not differ a great deal from the public in opinions about foreign policy . Libertarianism is generally associated with a less activist foreign policy , yet a greater share of self-described libertarians ( 43 % ) than the public ( 35 % ) think `` it is best for the future of our country to be active in world affairs . ''
Republican and Democratic voters have substantial differences over the importance of key issues in the 2016 campaign . The widest gap is over the environment : Twice as many Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters ( 74 % ) as Republicans and Republican leaners ( 37 % ) say the environment is very important to their vote .
About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Republicans who agree with the Tea Party movement say there is a great deal of bias – at least twice the percentage as in any other political group , including non-Tea Party Republicans ( 33 % ) and liberal Democrats ( 36 % ) . Among news audiences , those who cite the Fox News Channel or the radio as their main source of campaign news are the most likely to say there is a great deal of bias in news coverage .
In a campaign season profoundly disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic , about half of U.S. adults say they are fairly closely or very closely following news about the candidates for the 2020 presidential election . That is somewhat smaller than the share who were following news about the presidential candidates a few months ago , and substantially smaller than the share now following news about the COVID-19 outbreak .
Majorities also view the budget deficit ( 65 % ) , foreign policy ( 64 % ) , immigration ( 62 % ) and economic inequality ( 57 % ) as very important to their vote . Two social issues — gay marriage and birth control — rank lower on the importance list ; only about a third of voters say each will be very important to their vote this fall ( 36 % birth control , 32 % gay marriage ) .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners with a very unfavorable view of the Democratic Party in the current survey , 65 % are likely voters , compared with only 49 % among Democrats with a very unfavorable view of the Republican Party . Those who are less hostile to the opposite party are considerably less likely to vote . Among Republicans , 40 % of those with a mostly unfavorable view of Democrats are likely to vote , and only 23 % of those with positive views ( or who offer no opinion ) of the Democratic Party are likely to vote . On the other side , 33 % of Democrats with a mostly unfavorable view of the Republican Party are forecasted to turn out , as are 19 % of those with positive views of ( or no opinion about ) the GOP .
Broadly speaking , Obama has an advantage over Republicans when it comes to environmental matters . The environment is the only one of nine issues tested in a post-election poll where Obama enjoys a clear edge , with Americans favoring his approach to the subject over that of the Republicans by a 35 % to 20 % margin . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) see no difference between the two .
For example , this survey finds that 58 % of U.S. adults say they would be very or somewhat likely to speak with a public health official who contacted them by phone or text message to speak with them about the coronavirus outbreak . Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) report they would be at least somewhat comfortable sharing information with a public health official about the places they have recently visited . A smaller share – 49 % – say they would be similarly comfortable sharing location data from their cellphone . And fully 93 % of adults say they definitely or probably would quarantine themselves for at least 14 days if they were told they should do so by a public health official because they had the coronavirus . Yet the survey also shows that portions of Americans could be hard to reach and relatively uncomfortable engaging with public health officials as part of the contact tracing process related to the coronavirus outbreak . For instance , 41 % of those who were asked about their views on speaking with a public health official who might contact them about the coronavirus outbreak via phone or text say they would be not at all or not too likely to do so . A similar share ( 40 % ) of those who were asked about speaking with a public official who showed up at their residence to talk about COVID-19 say the same thing .1 Many factors could influence Americans ' participation in contact tracing and quarantine programs . This survey asked U.S. adults how they might behave in three major aspects of contact tracing in the context of the coronavirus outbreak : the likelihood that someone would speak with a public health official ( i.e. , a contact tracer ) who contacted them about the coronavirus ; the degree of comfort that someone would have in sharing information like the names of people with whom they have been in physical contact and the places they have recently visited , or data from their cellphone that tracked their locations ; and their willingness to quarantine for 14 days if they were advised to do so by a public health official . We refer to these three steps as `` speak , '' `` share '' and `` quarantine '' throughout this report .
Start with the voters . For years the Pew Research Center has asked people which party , if any , they identify with and whether they describe their political views as conservative , moderate or liberal . Put those results together and you get a portrait of polarization ; it clearly shows that self-described conservatives make up a greater share of Republicans in 2012 ( 68 % ) than they did in 2000 ( 59 % ) , while self-described liberals account for a greater share of Democrats ( 27 % in 2000 , 39 % in 2012 ) . ( There are considerably more independents — 37 % of respondents picked that label in 2012 versus 28 % in 2000 — but the proportions of liberals , moderates and conservatives within the independent group have stayed roughly the same . ) In addition , as The New York Times illustrated recently , red and blue America have very different racial and ethnic makeups . House districts represented by Democrats are collectively just over half white , 16 % black and nearly a quarter ( 22.5 % ) Hispanic ; Republican-represented districts are nearly three-quarters white , 8.5 % black and 11.1 % Hispanic .
Support for internet freedom is especially strong in Argentina ( 71 % very important ) , the U.S. , Germany and Spain ( each 69 % ) , and Chile ( 68 % ) . In many countries , young people , those with more years of education and high-income respondents tend to place a higher value on internet freedom .
Despite gloomy national conditions , many say their personal economic situation is good . This is one area where the emerging markets are not alone in their positive attitudes – a median of 57 % among emerging market publics say things are going well personally , and a nearly equal percentage ( 58 % ) among the advanced economies feels good about their family finances . Publics in developing economies are somewhat less satisfied with their personal situation ( 47 % ) .
In every case , the differences between Republicans ' and Democrats ' levels of comfort far exceeds other demographic and even geographic differences . Across all six items , the average partisan gap in levels of comfort is nearly twice as big as the gap between whites and nonwhites and is far larger than the gap between men and women , those living in urban and rural communities , and the gap between younger and older Americans .
Trump 's personality is mentioned quite often both positively and negatively . Among those who approve of Trump 's job performance ( 36 % of the public ) , more than half ( 54 % ) volunteer something about his personality or general approach as what they like most ; mentions of Trump 's policies or agenda are a distant second , at 14 % .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
Yet even as partisan divides in views of some of these institutions have widened in recent years , the public 's overall evaluations are little changed . Majorities of Americans say churches and religious organizations ( 59 % ) and colleges and universities ( 55 % ) have a positive effect . Nearly half ( 47 % ) say labor unions have a positive impact ; 32 % see their impact negatively . Views of the impact of banks and other financial institutions are more negative ( 46 % ) than positive ( 39 % ) . And by roughly two-to-one ( 63 % to 28 % ) , more Americans say that the national news media has a negative than positive effect on the way things are going in the country .
Overall , nearly one-in-five Americans ( 17 % ) say they have lost their job as a result of the coronavirus outbreak , and about a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) say they had to take a cut in pay due to reduced hours or demand for their work ; 10 % of Americans say they experienced both a pay cut and job loss . About one-in-five say someone else in their immediate household lost their job ( 18 % ) or lost wages ( 22 % ) . In total , 43 % of Americans say they or someone in their household has lost a job or wages . Job and wage losses continue to be felt more acutely by some groups than others . Hispanic adults ( 43 % ) – particularly those born outside the U.S. – are among the most likely to say they 've personally experienced pay cuts or job loss due to the coronavirus outbreak , as are those ages 18 to 29 ( 40 % ) , adults with lower incomes ( 36 % ) and those with a high school degree or less ( 33 % ) . These patterns mirror previous findings , when the questions were asked in a somewhat different format .
On balance , Venezuelans have an unfavorable view of President Maduro . Two years after being voted into office in a special election following Hugo Chávez 's death , Maduro receives only a 29 % favorable rating , compared with 68 % voicing an unfavorable view . However , opposition party leaders do not fare much better . Henrique Capriles , the current governor of Miranda and leader of the Justice First party , also receives a low 36 % positive rating , and a majority views him unfavorably ( 56 % ) . Similarly , Leopoldo López , founder of the Popular Will party , receives just a 36 % favorable review from the Venezuelan people , with a majority ( 55 % ) offering a negative review .
Latinos make up 15 percent of the total U.S. population , and in many respects their downbeat assessment of the nation 's economy is similar to that of the general population . According to a recent survey from the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press ( December 2008 ) , almost six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say the U.S. economy is in poor condition , a belief held by 63 % of Latinos . And similar shares of the general U.S. population and Latinos say that jobs are difficult to find where they live—73 % versus 78 % . However , Latinos hold a more negative view of their own current personal financial situation than does the population as a whole . More than three-in-four ( 75 % ) Latinos , and 84 % of foreign-born Latinos , say their current personal finances are in either fair or poor shape , while 61 % of the general U.S. population says that . But Latinos are more optimistic than others about the future : 67 % expect that their financial circumstances will improve over the next year ; just 56 % of the general population feels the same way .
Young adults continue to be more likely than older people to express a favorable opinion of labor unions . A 68 % majority of those ages 18 to 29 hold a positive view of unions , compared with only about half ( 51 % ) of those 50 and older . Adults younger than 30 also are somewhat less likely to view businesses favorably : Fewer than half ( 46 % ) hold a favorable opinion of business corporations , while 47 % hold an unfavorable view . By contrast , older Americans are more likely to be positive than negative in their views . Adults under 30 are the only age group in which a larger share has a favorable view of labor unions than of business corporations .
In a year in which big tech companies faced growing scrutiny , nine-in-ten Republicans – and around six-in-ten Democrats ( 59 % ) – said it 's likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints . Overall , around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 73 % ) said in June that it 's very or somewhat likely that social media sites censor political viewpoints they find objectionable . In late May , Twitter began labeling tweets by Trump as misleading , prompting the president and some of his supporters to accuse social media platforms of censoring conservative voices .
As of 2019 , there were 25 AM or FM stations listed as `` all-news '' in the BIA Advisory Services database of radio stations . Entercom ( which merged with CBS Corp. in 2017 ) is currently the parent company of 10 of these 25 stations .
Muslims are the fastest-growing religious group in the world . The growth and regional migration of Muslims , combined with the ongoing impact of the Islamic State ( also known as ISIS or ISIL ) and other extremist groups that commit acts of violence in the name of Islam , have brought Muslims and the Islamic faith to the forefront of the political debate in many countries . Yet many facts about Muslims are not well known in some of these places , and most Americans – who live in a country with a relatively small Muslim population – have said they know little or nothing about Islam . There were 1.8 billion Muslims in the world as of 2015 – roughly 24 % of the global population – according to a Pew Research Center estimate . But while Islam is currently the world 's second-largest religion ( after Christianity ) , it is the fastest-growing major religion . Indeed , if current demographic trends continue , the number of Muslims is expected to exceed the number of Christians by the end of this century .
Guatemalan immigrants around the world sent home $ 7.5 billion in remittances in 2016 , while Salvadorans sent $ 4.6 billion and Hondurans $ 3.9 billion , according to World Bank data . The vast majority of the money came from immigrants in the U.S .
Overall , a larger share of assistant professors ( junior faculty without tenure ) were nonwhite in fall 2017 , compared with fully tenured professors ( 27 % vs. 19 % ) . But junior faculty have n't diversified much faster than their senior , fully tenured counterparts . Between fall 1997 and fall 2017 , the share of nonwhite assistant professors grew by 10 percentage points , compared with 8 points for professors .
About four-in-ten adults ( 42 % ) say they have heard `` nothing at all '' about the caucus , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 5 - 11 among 1,501 U.S. adults . Another 39 % say they have heard `` a little '' about it , while only about one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) say they have heard `` a lot '' about the group . Democrats and Republicans are about equally likely to say they have not heard of the Freedom Caucus . However , in both parties , the caucus is better known among the more ideological . About half ( 52 % ) of moderate and liberal Republicans have heard nothing at all about the caucus , compared with just 36 % of conservative Republicans . Among Democrats , 47 % of conservatives and moderates , compared with 30 % of liberals , have heard nothing at all about the caucus .
In comparison , a smaller share of U.S. adults ( 26 % ) say the federal government 's policies to control the spread of the coronavirus are influenced a great deal by public health experts ' evidence . About one-quarter of Americans ( 24 % ) think such evidence does not influenced the federal government 's response too much or at all . ( The survey asked a random half of respondents to gauge the role this evidence played either in federal policies and the other half to rate its role in their state government 's policies . )
When both parents in a household work full time , most say neither 's career takes priority , but half say dad makes more money . Some 62 % say the mother and father are equally focused on their careers , while 22 % say the father is more career-oriented and 15 % say it 's the mother .
Despite these tensions and a history of hostility between the two nations , most want better relations and deeper economic ties with Pakistan . More than eight-in-ten Indians ( 83 % ) say it is important that relations with Pakistan improve , while more than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) believe an increase in trade and business ties between the two countries would be good for India . And 63 % also favor further talks between India and Pakistan to reduce tensions .
Views among Hispanics born in the U.S. mirror those of all Americans—about six-in-ten believe that kids are better off if a parent stays home to focus on the family , according to a 2014 Pew Research Center survey . But a far larger majority—85 % –of foreign-born Hispanics say that children are better off if a parent is at home .
China has more internet users than nearly all other countries have people . ( The lone exception is India . ) According to the latest semiannual report from the official China Internet Network Information Center , 590.56 million people in China were using the internet at mid-2013 , an increase of nearly 53 million ( or 9.85 % ) from a year earlier . By comparison , the U.S. has the second-most internet users — 254 million , according to the Harvard Business Review , but that 's less than half as many as China . Internet penetration in China continues to rise , but is still just 44.1 % , according to the center 's report ; a year earlier it was 39.9 % . By contrast , according to the Pew Research Center , almost everyone in the U.S. who wants to be online already is : 85 % of Americans ages 18 and older ( and 95 % of teens ) use the internet or email , and only 8 % of those who do n't say they 're interested in starting .
The share of U.S. children living with an unmarried parent has more than doubled since 1968 , jumping from 13 % to 32 % in 2017 . That trend has been accompanied by a drop in the share of children living with two married parents , down from 85 % in 1968 to 65 % . Some 3 % of children are not living with any parents , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Most children in unmarried parent households are living with a solo mother , but a growing share are living with cohabiting parents . Overall , about one-in-five children ( 21 % ) are living with a solo mother , up from 12 % in 1968 . Some 7 % are living with cohabiting parents , about double the share that were doing so in 1997 ( the first year for which census data on cohabitation are available ) . The share of children living with a solo father has ticked up , and stands at 4 % , up from 1 % in 1968 . ( In this analysis , children are classified based on the parent with whom they live most of the time . Children who split their time equally between households are classified based on which household they were in at the time of the data collection . )
The same pattern was found for people 's beliefs about energy issues . The survey found that Republicans more than Democrats favored expanding fossil fuel energy sources , as has been the case in past Pew Research Center surveys . The 2016 survey found that the vast majority of Democrats with high science knowledge opposed expanding offshore oil drilling , fracking and coal mining . Democrats with low science knowledge were more closely divided over these issues . Republicans ' views about these energy issues were about the same regardless of their level of science knowledge .
And when it comes to the global balance of power , two-thirds of Chinese said in 2015 that their nation would eventually replace the U.S. – or had already replaced it – as the world 's leading superpower . Americans , on the other hand , were split . About half ( 48 % ) believed China would never surpass the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower , while 46 % said that China would eventually replace the U.S. or already had . By contrast , in 2009 , a majority ( 57 % ) of Americans thought China would never overtake the U.S. as the top global power .
It takes a lot to dent Americans ' optimism about housing . Just over two years ago , when the housing bubble 's collapse was fresher in people 's minds , eight out of 10 people surveyed for a Pew Research report agreed that buying a home was the best long-term investment a person can make .
In December 2012 , a quarter of Americans said they were `` very closely '' or `` fairly closely '' following the news that the young royals were expecting a child , who will be third in line for the British throne . Interest was greatest among Americans in the 55 - 64 age range , 36 % of whom said they were following the news .
Nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Republican and Republican leaning voters say they have an excellent or good impression of their party 's presidential candidates , which is little changed from May of this year ( 57 % ) . In August 2011 , 49 % of Republican voters viewed the GOP presidential field positively ; in October 2007 , 50 % had a favorable impression of the candidates as a group .
Currently 62 % say it is more important for the federal government to investigate possible terrorist threats , even if that intrudes on personal privacy . Just 34 % say it is more important for the government not to intrude on personal privacy , even if that limits its ability to investigate possible terrorist threats .
India 's religious minorities have been more likely to migrate internationally . Religious minorities make up a larger share of India 's international migrant population than they do among the nation 's domestic population , according to 2010 Pew Research Center estimates . For example , about 19 % of the Indian international migrant population was Christian , compared with only 3 % of the population in India . Similarly , an estimated 27 % of the Indian international migrant population was Muslim , compared with 14 % of the population in India . The reverse is true for Hindus : Only 45 % of India 's international migrant population was Hindu , compared with 80 % of the population in India .
Many parents struggle to find high-quality , affordable child care or after-school activities or programs . About four-in-ten parents with school-aged children ( 39 % ) say it 's hard to find high-quality , affordable after-school activities and programs for their children in their community , and this is especially the case for lower-income parents .
Supporters of the two parties differ substantially in their views of immigrants and the benefits that they do – or do not – bring to Italian society . About three-quarters of Italians who identify with the League – which campaigned on a far-right platform focused on reducing immigration – say immigrants are a burden on the Italian economy because they take Italians ' jobs . About seven-in-ten League supporters also say immigrants increase the risk of terrorist attacks in Italy , including 59 % who say they strongly believe immigrants increase the risk of such attacks . Those who identify with Five Star – which focused less on the immigration issue during the campaign – are more divided and much more in line with the views of the rest of Italian society . Among Five Star supporters , 49 % say immigrants are an economic burden , compared with 40 % who say they make the economy stronger . And while a majority of Five Star backers ( 55 % ) say immigrants increase the risk of terrorism in their country , a sizable percentage ( 42 % ) say immigrants do not increase terror risks .
While only a minority of Americans ( 40 % ) feel it is acceptable for the government to monitor ordinary American citizens , many think it is acceptable to monitor others in a variety of other situations . Americans generally support the use of surveillance to investigate criminal activity , as well as circumstances when a person 's digital activity may raise suspicion of potential involvement with terrorism or violent acts .
The Department of Veterans Affairs receives a low favorability rating . While the public expresses favorable views of many federal agencies , the VA received the lowest rating among 10 agencies and departments in a Pew Research Center survey earlier this year . Roughly half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) had a favorable view of the VA and 34 % expressed an unfavorable view . As with all the agencies and departments in the survey , there were partisan differences . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents expressed lower favorability for the VA ( 40 % ) than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 60 % ) .
A downward trajectory in trust in government also is seen across racial and ethnic lines . Currently , white non-Hispanics , black non-Hispanics and Hispanics all express historically low levels of trust in government . During the Republican presidencies of Reagan and G.W . Bush more whites than blacks said they trusted the government to do the right thing . Conversely , during the Democratic administrations of Clinton and Obama blacks were more likely than whites to express trust in government .
While wary about U.S. global involvement , there has been a shift in Americans ' views since Russia 's challenge to the pro-Western government in Ukraine , and the rapid rise of ISIS in the conflict-ridden Middle East . Today , 39 % of Americans say the U.S. is doing too much to solve world problems , a drop from the 51 % who said the same last November . Those saying that the U.S. does too little to address global problems has nearly doubled , from 17 % to 31 % .
There is also wide disagreement on how much discrimination contributes to racial and ethnic disparities in the field . Among those in STEM jobs , 72 % of blacks say a major reason blacks and Hispanics are underrepresented in these jobs is that they face discrimination in recruiting , hiring and promotions . That compares with 43 % of Hispanics and around a quarter of whites and Asians ( 27 % and 28 % , respectively ) .
3 Demographic changes have reshaped both party coalitions over the past quarter century , pushing them further apart . Democratic voters are becoming less white , less religious and better-educated at a faster rate than the country as a whole , while aging at a slower rate . Within the GOP , the pattern is the reverse : Republican voters are becoming more diverse , better-educated and less religious at a slower rate than the country generally , while the age profile of the GOP is growing older more quickly than that of the nation as a whole .
Social media and direct visits to news organizations ' websites are the most common pathways to online news . When asked how they arrived at news content in their most recent web interaction , online news consumers were about equally likely to say they got news by going directly to a news website ( 36 % of the times they got news , on average ) as they were to say they got it through social media ( 35 % ) . They were less likely to access news through emails , text messages or search engines .
Only about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) cite news about protests in Egypt and other Middle Eastern countries as the story they followed most closely last week . By contrast , more than three times that number ( 38 % ) followed news about the aftermath of the Jan. 8 Arizona shooting rampage most closely last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 27 - 30 among 1,007 adults . For its part , the media devoted more attention to news about unrest in the Middle East ( 20 % of coverage ) than any other story last week , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Just 4 % of coverage was devoted to the aftermath of the Arizona shootings .
Catholics are about as diverse as Americans overall , but their specific racial and ethnic composition is somewhat different . Compared with all U.S. adults , Catholics are made up of fewer non-Hispanic whites ( 59 % vs. 66 % ) and blacks ( 3 % vs. 12 % ) and more heavily made up of Hispanics ( 34 % vs. 15 % ) .
Lack of confidence in the central government is pronounced . Not including Crimea , fewer than half of Ukrainians ( 41 % ) say the current government in Kyiv is having a good influence on the way things are going in the country . Similar to views on official state languages , sharp regional divides are evident : six-in-ten in the country 's west rate Kyiv 's influence favorably , compared with only about a quarter in eastern Ukraine ( 24 % ) who share this assessment .
According to a Pew Research Center survey in 2012 , a majority ( 77 % ) of all registered voters support photo ID laws , including 71 % of Latino registered voters . The survey also found an overwhelming majority ( 97 % ) of Latinos said they were confident that they had the identification necessary to vote . That compares with 98 % of all registered voters who said the same ahead of the 2012 presidential elections .
When it comes to different kinds of information , the picture varies by the specific type . While relatively few Americans feel as if they have a lot of control over who has access to everything from their physical location to their social media posts , there are experiences in which some Americans especially feel a lack of control . Roughly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say they feel as if they have no control over who can access the search terms they use , and 41 % say the same about the websites they visit . By comparison , a smaller share of the public feels as if they do not have control over who can access their physical location .
U.S. political leaders have a sizable following among Americans who are on the platform . Among U.S adults with public Twitter accounts , 19 % follow President Donald Trump , while 26 % follow former President Barack Obama . Overall , 21 % follow at least one member of Congress , with 17 % following a Democratic legislator and 8 % following a Republican member .
Across Europe , 91 % of students in primary and secondary school were studying English in 2017 – more than all other foreign languages learned combined by a large margin , according to data from Eurostat , the statistics arm of the European Commission . The next-most studied languages in European schools are French , German and Spanish , each garnering no more than 15 % of students participating in 2017 . Russian , studied in a formal classroom by 2 % of Europeans , is the only other foreign language that more than 1 % of European students learn .
In the Center 's June survey , 60 % of Americans say that changing election rules to make it easier to register and vote would not make elections any less secure , while 37 % say that elections would be less secure if it were easier to register and vote . These views are little changed from 2018 . Majorities of Black , white and Hispanic Americans hold the view that making it easier to vote would not make elections any less secure , but Black Americans are especially likely to say this ( 70 % vs. 58 % among both white and Hispanic Americans ) . However , there is a stark partisan divide in these views : Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats ( 79 % ) say that changes to election rules to make it easier to register and vote would not make elections any less secure , while 59 % of Republicans say they would .
The opinions of police and the public also differ on some important issues facing the country . While a majority of the police and public support some gun control measures , roughly one-third of police ( 32 % ) but 64 % of the public favor banning assault-style weapons . And while 67 % of officers say the deaths of blacks in recent encounters with police are isolated incidents , less than half of the public ( 39 % ) shares this view .
Some 44 % of all Hispanic adults — and fully half of all first-generation Hispanic immigrants — say that today 's children in this country will grow up to be better off than people are now , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . By contrast , just 33 % of both whites and black hold this positive view .
Among the 14 advanced economies surveyed , most rate China 's COVID-19 response negatively . A median of 61 % say China has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak , while 37 % believe the country has done a good job .
Despite clear support for an end to the U.S. embargo and re-establishment of diplomatic relations , Latin Americans are divided on their overall opinion of Cuba . Across the six countries surveyed , a median of 40 % have a favorable view of the Caribbean nation , but 44 % hold an unfavorable view . Overall support for Cuba is strongest in Chile , the only country where a plurality has a positive view . In Venezuela , 42 % have a favorable opinion of Cuba , similar to the 37 % who held this view in 2014 .
In Latin America , where nearly 40 % of the world 's Catholics live , Protestant populations have risen sharply . In a survey conducted in the region in 2014 , 9 % of respondents across 19 Latin American countries said they were raised as Protestants , while 19 % identified Protestant ( or evangelical ) Christianity as their current religion . Net gains for Protestants in Latin America have meant net losses for Catholics . While 84 % of respondents were raised as Catholic , only 69 % identified their current religion as Catholic . Protestants across Latin America also are significantly more religious than Catholics . And they are more likely to take conservative positions on issues such as divorce , abortion , gay marriage and gender norms . One relatively recent and distinctive Protestant movement that has gained ground globally is Pentecostalism . While practices vary , Pentecostal churches often emphasize the `` gifts of the Holy Spirit , '' such as divine healing , speaking in tongues and receiving direct revelations from God . These practices are common among Protestants in sub-Saharan Africa , Latin America and even in Asia . For example , in a survey conducted in 2014 , the majority of churchgoing Protestants across 19 Latin American countries said they have at least occasionally witnessed speaking in tongues , prophesying and praying for a miraculous healing in church .
Growth in the number of foreign graduates under OPT slowed in 2017 across all degree levels , but the trend was most pronounced among master 's degree holders . About 188,600 foreign students held master 's degrees in 2017 , a 9 % increase over the previous year – far lower than the 45 % annual increase seen in 2016 . This slowdown follows a period of rapid growth : From 2014 to 2015 , the number of foreign students with master 's degrees jumped by 57 % , the highest annual increase of any degree level since 2004 .
Some 30 % of Americans say they have ever used an online dating site or app . Out of those who have used these platforms , 18 % say they are currently using them , while an additional 17 % say they are not currently doing so but have used them in the past year . Experience with online dating varies substantially by age . While 48 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say they have ever used a dating site or app , that share is 38 % among 30- to 49-year-olds , and it is even smaller among those ages 50 and older . Still , online dating is not completely foreign to those in their 50s or early 60s : 19 % of adults ages 50 to 64 say they have used a dating site or app .
While majorities of both men and women say there is at least some discrimination against women , this view is more widely held among women ( 76 % ) than it is among men ( 62 % ) . Both men and women are substantially less likely to see discrimination against men . Men are slightly more likely than women to say there is a lot or some discrimination against men ( 43 % of men , 36 % of women ) . Within partisan groups there are no gender gaps in views about discrimination against men : About half of Republican men ( 51 % ) and a similar share of GOP women ( 44 % ) say that there is at least some discrimination against men . Both Democratic men ( 29 % ) and Democratic women ( 26 % ) are much less likely say this . In views of discrimination against women , fairly comparable shares of Republican women ( 58 % ) and men ( 47 % ) say women face at least some discrimination . Democrats – both women ( 86 % ) and men ( 81 % ) – are far more likely than Republicans to see discrimination against women . However , a greater share of Democratic women ( 51 % ) than Democratic men ( 35 % ) say women face `` a lot '' of discrimination in our society .
In Western Europe , slim majorities in Germany ( 54 % ) , Britain ( 53 % ) and France ( 51 % ) support raising prices to address climate change . Opinions are almost equally split among the Spanish ( 49 % agree vs. 48 % disagree ) .
People are also generally in favor of using human gene editing to reduce the risk of future health problems from occurring . A median of 60 % say it is appropriate to use gene editing to reduce the risk of a serious disease a baby could develop over their lifetime , while 33 % see this as a misuse of technology . About three-quarters of adults are positive about this application in Spain ( 77 % ) , as are roughly seven-in-ten in India and Taiwan . Opinion is more narrowly divided in Germany , where 49 % say this is appropriate while 45 % say it is misusing technology . And in Japan , opinion divides 47 % appropriate to 41 % misusing technology .
Public more confident in Trump on trade than on immigration , nuclear weapons . In the Aug .15 - 21 telephone survey , half of Americans say they are very or somewhat confident in Trump to negotiate favorable trade agreements with other countries ; nearly as many ( 46 % ) are at least somewhat confident he can make good appointments to federal courts . Trump draws less confidence in his ability to make wise decisions about immigration and the use of nuclear weapons ( 40 % each ) . Majorities say they are not too or not at all confident in Trump 's handling of these two issues .
The public expressed similar levels of interest in developments in Afghanistan and Libya . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about either war zone very closely ; 7 % say news about Afghanistan was their top story , while 6 % say this about Libya .
Most of the increase in negative opinions has come among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Today , 25 % say Trump has made race relations worse , while 17 % say he has made them better and 53 % say he has not made a difference .
As is the case in much of the world , relatively few people in Latin America express confidence in Trump 's leadership on the global stage . A median of 77 % in Latin America said in the 2017 survey that they have no confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs . In 2014 , just 42 % of people in the same seven countries said they had no confidence in then-U.S. President Barack Obama . Among 37 countries surveyed globally in 2017 , Trump received his lowest ratings on this question in Mexico , where 93 % said they have no confidence in the U.S. leader . His proposed wall on the U.S.-Mexico border was also particularly unpopular in the United States ' southern neighbor , where 94 % said they disapproved of the project . The border wall was similarly unpopular across the other six Latin American countries surveyed , with a regional median of 83 % saying they opposed it .
However , independents who lean toward the Republican and Democratic parties – unlike those who identify as partisans – hold very different views . By a 58 % -32 % margin , independents who lean Republican say that Apple should unlock the iPhone . By contrast , 55 % of Democratic leaners say Apple should not unlock the iPhone , while 34 % say that they should . Across age groups , adults ages 18 - 29 are divided over what Apple should do : 47 % say the company should unlock the iPhone , while about as many ( 43 % ) say it should not unlock the phone to ensure the privacy of its other users . Among adults age 30 and older , somewhat more say Apple should unlock rather than not unlock the San Bernardino suspect 's iPhone . By a 54 % -27 % margin , those 65 and older think Apple should unlock the phone ; 18 % do not offer a view .
These investigative journalists do not put much stock in their internet service providers to keep their data secure . Just 2 % have `` a lot of confidence '' their ISP can protect their data from being accessed by unauthorized parties , while 71 % have `` not much or no confidence at all . ''
Some 42 % of conservative Republicans think of scientists as politically liberal , up 14 percentage points from 28 % in 2009 . At the other end of the spectrum , liberal Democrats are also more likely than in 2009 to perceive scientists as generally liberal – 30 % do so , up from 21 % . The views among other party/ideology groups have stayed roughly the same over this time period , however .
Nonetheless , most Africans ( a median of 68 % ) say their countries need more foreign aid . More than eight-in-ten hold this opinion in Senegal , Burkina Faso and Uganda . South Africa , which has the highest per capita income among the nations surveyed , is an outlier on this question – just 26 % of South Africans think their country needs more foreign aid .
Similarly , fewer liberal Democrats ( 35 % ) than conservative and moderate Democrats ( 53 % ) believe the CIA interrogations provided intelligence that helped prevent terrorist attacks . And on the question of whether the Senate Intelligence Committee was right to publicly release their report , 71 % of liberal Democrats call this the right decision , compared with about half of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 48 % ) .
In Pew Center surveys conducted since the Iraq war earlier this year , 30 % of Americans identify themselves as Republicans , 31 % as Democrats and 39 % as independents or other . When that combined sample is winnowed to registered voters , the partisan breakdown is just as narrow ­ 33 % Republican , 34 % Democrat , 33 % independent or other .
There have been substantial changes over time on many of the eight international threats asked about in the 2018 survey . For example , in 2013 , well before the Paris climate agreement was signed , a median of 56 % across 23 countries surveyed said global climate change was a major threat to their country . That climbed to 63 % in 2017 , and in 2018 it stands at 67 % .
A 63 % majority of those who identify as Republicans say the U.S. economic system is fair to most Americans ; fewer than half as many ( 29 % ) say the system unfairly favors powerful interests . GOP leaners are divided : 49 % say the system is generally fair , while nearly as many ( 46 % ) say it unfairly favors powerful interests . Large majorities of both Democrats ( 85 % ) and Democratic leaners ( 81 % ) say the U.S. economic system unfairly favors powerful interests . Most independents who do not lean toward a party share this view ( 70 % ) .
The simultaneous Oct. 1 shutdown of the federal government and launch of the health insurance exchange portion of the Affordable Care Act ( also known as Obamacare ) have become inextricably linked in the current partisan showdown in Washington . Almost a quarter of the conversation about the shutdown ( 23 % ) focused on who was to blame . And , by more than a 3:1 margin , the verdict was clear : In the discussion focused on finding fault , 77 % of the assertions on Twitter blamed Republicans in Congress while 23 % blamed Democrats in Congress or Obama .
Meanwhile , around half of internet users are able to correctly answer several other questions in the survey . Some 54 % of internet users are able to identify examples of phishing attacks . Similarly , 52 % correctly say that turning off the GPS function of a smartphone does not prevent all tracking of that device ( mobile phones can also be tracked via the cellular towers or Wi-Fi networks to which they are connected ) . Additionally , 49 % of internet users know that Americans are legally entitled to get one free copy of their credit report annually from each of the three major credit bureaus . This issue is not specifically related to any technical aspects of cybersecurity , but cybersecurity experts recommend that anyone who uses the internet for financial or other sensitive transactions regularly check their credit reports to discover evidence of identity theft or other kinds of fraud . A similar share ( 48 % ) can correctly define the term `` ransomware . '' This refers to criminals accessing someone 's computer , encrypting their personal files and data , and holding that data hostage unless they are paid to decrypt the files .
Roughly four-in-ten adults who describe themselves as bisexual ( 43 % ) say they are sexually attracted to men and women equally . A similar share ( 40 % ) say they are attracted mostly to the opposite gender and 4 % report feeling attracted only to the opposite gender , while 12 % and 1 % , respectively , say they are attracted mostly or only to their own gender . Among people who identify as straight or heterosexual , the vast majority ( 96 % ) say they are attracted only to the opposite gender , and a small share ( 3 % , mostly made up of women ) say they are mostly attracted to the opposite gender . Gays and lesbians are somewhat less likely to report being solely attracted to one gender . Still , most ( 81 % ) are attracted solely to the same gender while 14 % are attracted mostly to the same gender .
Compared with concerns about Russian or Chinese influence , worries about U.S. power and influence are relatively high in Argentina , Brazil , Mexico and Tunisia . More than half in these countries say U.S. power is a major threat to their country . By comparison , concerns about the U.S. are relatively lower in sub-Saharan Africa and Israel . In none of these countries does a majority express concern about Russian or Chinese power .
Currently , Democrats are more definite about their general election preferences than are Republicans : 73 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters say they will definitely vote for the party 's nominee , while 59 % of Republican and Republican-leaning voters say they will definitely vote for Trump . The survey was conducted before Trump 's Senate impeachment trial . ( See this report for views of the Senate trial and Donald Trump . ) Yet Republicans are far more confident of victory in November . Nearly four-in-ten Republican voters ( 38 % ) think Trump will definitely win reelection , while another 41 % say he will probably win . Among Democratic voters , just 11 % say the Democratic candidate will definitely win , while 32 % see a Democratic victory as probable . Democratic voters are far more likely than Republicans to decline to express an opinion about the outcome ( 34 % vs. 15 % ) .
Other differences were not quite so large . About two-thirds of all Americans ( 64 % ) favor a ban on assault-style weapons and roughly the same share of police ( 67 % ) oppose such a restriction . More broadly , the surveys found that a larger share of police than the public believe it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns than to control gun ownership ( 74 % of police vs. 53 % of the public ) .
At a time when much attention has been focused on how much individuals can protect their privacy in a wired world , a new survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project finds that 86 % of internet users have taken steps online to remove or mask their digital footprints . More than half ( 55 % ) of internet users say they took the steps to avoid observation by specific people , organizations or the government . But despite such efforts , 59 % of internet users do n't believe it 's possible to achieve complete anonymity on line . Read the full report . From deleting cookies from browsers to using temporary e-mail names , internet users have tried a variety of strategies to protect their privacy .
It 's summertime , which means Americans are embarking on vacation trips to destinations near and far . One getaway in the `` far '' category would be a trip to space , something a host of private companies are trying to make possible . But it 's not an excursion that appeals to everyone – more U.S. adults say they would not want to orbit the Earth than say they would , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . About four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say they would definitely or probably be interested in orbiting the Earth in a spacecraft in the future , while roughly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they would not be interested . Among the 42 % of Americans who said they would be interested in traveling into space , the most common reason given ( by 45 % of those asked ) was to `` experience something unique . '' Smaller shares of this group said they would want to be able to view the Earth from space ( 29 % ) or `` learn more about the world '' ( 20 % ) . Among the 58 % who said they would not want to orbit the Earth aboard a spacecraft , equal shares said the main reason was that such a trip would be either `` too expensive '' ( 28 % of those asked ) or `` too scary '' ( 28 % ) or that their age or health would n't allow it ( 28 % ) .
Around two-thirds of registered voters in the U.S. ( 65 % ) do not have a college degree , while 36 % do . But the share of voters with a college degree has risen substantially since 1996 , when 24 % had one . Voters who identify with the Democratic Party or lean toward it are much more likely than their Republican counterparts to have a college degree ( 41 % vs. 30 % ) . In 1996 , the reverse was true : 27 % of GOP voters had a college degree , compared with 22 % of Democratic voters .
Views about the future of abortion do not necessarily mirror Americans ' current beliefs about whether abortion should be legal or illegal . A separate , September 2018 survey by the Center found that a majority ( 58 % ) of the public said abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with 37 % who said it should be illegal in all or most cases .
Americans ' confidence in medical scientists has grown since the coronavirus outbreak first began to upend life in the United States , as have perceptions that medical doctors hold very high ethical standards . And in their own estimation , most U.S. adults think the outbreak raises the importance of scientific developments . Public confidence in medical scientists to act in the best interests of the public has gone up from 35 % with a great deal of confidence before the outbreak to 43 % in the Center 's April survey . Similarly , there is a modest uptick in public confidence in scientists , from 35 % in 2019 to 39 % today . ( A random half of survey respondents rated their confidence in one of the two groups . )
However , as many say their greater concern is that the U.S. will go too far in getting involved in the situation in Iraq and Syria as that it will not go far enough in stopping Islamic militants ( 41 % each ) . That represents a shift in opinion since mid-August , when by 51 % to 32 % , more said their bigger concern was that the U.S. would get too involved in the situation in Iraq .
Two-thirds of Americans say the use of marijuana should be legal , reflecting a steady increase over the past decade , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The share of U.S. adults who oppose legalization has fallen from 52 % in 2010 to 32 % today . As in the past , there are wide partisan and generational differences in views of marijuana legalization . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say marijuana use should be legal . Republicans and Republican leaners are less supportive , with 55 % in favor of legalization and 44 % opposed .
Some 95 % of Americans who live in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year use the internet at least occasionally , compared with 70 % of those living in households earning less than $ 75,000 . Even among those who use the internet , the well off are more likely than those with less income to use technology . Of those 95 % of higher-income internet users :
Far fewer know the specifics about the GOP 's victories . Fewer than half ( 46 % ) know that the Republicans will have a majority only in the House of Representatives when the new Congress convenes in January , while 38 % can identify John Boehner as the incoming House Speaker .
However , women and men who were employed in the past two years are equally likely to say that they have taken time off to care for a sick family member during that time , but women report having taken slightly more time off , on average , than men . And women are much more likely than men to say that they were the primary caregiver for their sick family member . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of female family-leave takers say they provided more care for their sick family member than anyone else in the family . Only 44 % of male family-leave takers say they were the main caregiver .
The new survey finds that partisans are starkly divided in their perceptions of how seriously the Trump administration is trying to prevent Russian interference in future U.S. elections . A large majority of Republicans ( 81 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident the administration is making a serious effort to prevent future Russian interference , with 49 % saying they are very confident – an 11-point increase since March 2018 . Only 17 % say they are not too or not at all confident . In contrast , 83 % of Democrats say they are not too or not at all confident that the administration is making a serious effort to prevent Russian interference . Only 15 % say they are very or somewhat confident .
Asked specifically about this possibility , Americans are more reluctant to embrace gene editing when it could affect future generations . Roughly half of adults ( 49 % ) said gene editing would be less acceptable to them if the effects `` changed the genetic makeup of the whole population , '' versus just 17 % who said it would be more acceptable . When asked about an alternate scenario in which the effects of gene editing are limited to a single person , more Americans said it would be more acceptable than less acceptable ( 34 % to 23 % ) .
There is widespread pessimism among the Argentine public about the nation 's direction . About eight-in-ten ( 82 % ) express dissatisfaction with the way things are going in Argentina today . Younger Argentines ( ages 18 to 29 ) are significantly more likely than those 50 and older ( 87 % vs. 73 % ) to say they 're dissatisfied with conditions in the country . Similarly , women are more likely than men to hold this view ( 86 % vs. 78 % ) .
As was the case four years ago , the public is divided over GOP leaders ' policy plans . About as many approve ( 44 % ) as disapprove ( 43 % ) of Republican congressional leaders ' policies and plans for the future . Following the 2010 election , 41 % approved and 37 % disapproved of Republican leaders ' plans . The public by wide margins approved of Democratic leaders ' future plans and policies in 2006 ( 50 % to 21 % ) and Republican leaders ' proposals in 1994 ( 52 % to 28 % ) .
A median of 57 % across the 11 NATO member countries surveyed voiced favorable views of the coalition , with only about a quarter ( median of 27 % ) expressing negative opinions .
On this scale , the share of whites who show high levels of trust ( 27 % ) is twice as high as the share of black ( 13 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 12 % ) . The older a person is , the more likely they are to tilt toward more trustful answers . The more education Americans have , and the greater their household income , the greater the likelihood they are high on the personal trust spectrum . Those with less income and education are markedly more likely to be low trusters . Strikingly , nearly half of young adults ( 46 % ) are in the low trust group – a significantly higher share than among older adults .
The public paid far more attention to last week 's cold snap than to the controversy swirling around New Jersey Gov . Chris Christie . There also has been little short-term change in opinions about Christie : 60 % say their opinion of Christie has not changed in recent days , while 16 % now view him less favorably and 6 % more favorably .
Seven-in-ten Indians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in India today , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . And , with the Indian parliamentary elections just weeks away , the Indian public , by a margin of more than three-to-one , would prefer the Hindu-nationalist opposition Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) to lead the next Indian government rather than the Indian National Congress ( INC ) , which heads the current left-of-center governing coalition .
The recent passage of several highly restrictive abortion bills in Alabama , Georgia , Ohio and Missouri has led to increased speculation about the future of abortion access in the United States . When asked about the future of abortion last December – before these states acted – about three-in-four Americans said that , in 2050 , abortion will either be legal but with some restrictions ( 55 % ) or legal with no restrictions ( 22 % ) , a Pew Research Center survey found . About one-in-five said abortion will be illegal 30 years from now , with 16 % saying it will be illegal except in certain cases and 5 % saying it will be illegal with no exceptions .
Almost no one in Nigeria , Ghana , Bangladesh and Uganda owns a landline telephone . Many people worldwide are skipping the fixed telephone line that many Americans grew up with , and this fact is most apparent in many emerging and developing nations . Only 1 % of the population in Nigeria , Ghana , Bangladesh and Uganda say they own a working landline telephone in their household , while 89 % in Nigeria , 83 % in Ghana , 76 % in Bangladesh and 65 % in Uganda own cell phones . This compares with 60 % landline penetration in the U.S .
Much like ride-hailing apps , the legal and regulatory status of home-sharing services has been the subject of much debate in cities around the country . But in contrast to ride-hailing , relatively few Americans have been following the debate over home-sharing services : 22 % of Americans have heard something about this issue , with just 6 % indicating that they have heard `` a lot '' about it . Even users of home-sharing services themselves are not following this issue particularly closely : Just 19 % of home-sharing users have heard `` a lot '' about it , while 37 % have heard `` a little . '' But although home-sharing users have not been following the legal debate over these services with nearly the same intensity as their ride-hailing counterparts , those home-sharing users who have been following this issue tend to feel that these services should be both legal and tax-free for owners . Among home-sharing users who are aware of the legal debate over these services , 56 % believe that these services should be legal , and that owners should not have to pay any local hotel or lodging taxes ; just 31 % believe that owners should be able to legally rent out these services but should have to pay taxes for the privilege of doing so .
Education , the economy and health care are the leading concerns for voters this year – roughly eight-in-ten say each is very important to them personally . By contrast , many of the issues that have recently gotten attention – either on Capitol Hill or in the media – rank among the least important to voters . Barely a third ( 34 % ) say the issue of gay marriage is very important , and only somewhat more rank abortion , global warming , ending the inheritance tax , and government surveillance programs as very important . While gay marriage is more important to Republican voters than Democratic voters , even here it comes far down the list below such issues as terrorism and homeland security , the economy , and immigration .
The Center 's representative sample of American Facebook users finds that 88 % say they are assigned categories in this system , while 11 % say that after they are directed to their ad preferences page they get a message saying , `` You have no behaviors . '' Some six-in-ten Facebook users report their preferences page lists either 10 to 20 ( 27 % ) or 21 or more ( 33 % ) categories for them , while 27 % note their list contains fewer than 10 categories .
The terms that self-identified Hispanics use to describe themselves can provide a direct look at their views of identity and the link to their countries of birth or family origin . Among all Hispanic adults , for example , half say they most often describe themselves by their family 's country of origin or heritage , using terms such as Mexican , Cuban , Puerto Rican or Salvadoran . Another 23 % say they most often call themselves American . The other 23 % most often describe themselves as `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' the pan-ethnic terms used to describe this group in the U.S. , according to the survey of self-identified Hispanics .7
This association between politically mixed friendships and views of the other party is most notable with Republicans . Fully 62 % of Republicans with just a few or no Democratic friends feel very coldly toward Democrats . That compares with just 30 % of Republicans who have at least some Democratic friends . And among Republicans , those who have close Democratic friends hold fewer negative stereotypes of Democrats than those who do not . Differences among Democrats are not as stark , but nearly half of Democrats ( 49 % ) with few or no Republican friends feel very coldly toward Republicans , compared with 31 % of those with at least some friends from the other party .
A smaller pool of employed men may not be good news for young women who are looking for a man with a job , but it could be good news for young single men . At the opposite end of the demographic split , we calculated a list of the largest metro areas that have the lowest number of employed young men for every 100 young women .
Earlier this year , a Pew Research Center analysis of State Department data found a sharp decline in the number of refugees who have entered the U.S. so far in fiscal year 2018 compared with prior years .
Respondents to the survey were read a list of seven major nations , and for each one , were asked whether they think it is playing a more important , less important , or as important of a role in the world compared with 10 years ago . Among the seven countries tested , China stands apart : A median of 70 % across the nations polled say Beijing plays a more important role today than a decade ago . Half or more in 23 of 25 countries express this view . Many also say this about Russia . A median of 42 % believe Moscow 's role on the world stage has grown over the past decade , and majorities hold this view in Greece , Israel , Tunisia and Russia itself . Overall , people are split on whether Germany 's role is greater than it was 10 years ago or about the same , but many in Europe see Germany 's role as more influential . On the other hand , Europeans are particularly likely to think the UK is less important now . There is no real consensus in views of America 's prominence in world affairs . A median of 35 % believe it is as important as it was 10 years ago , while 31 % say it is more important and 25 % say less . Japan is the only country with a majority saying that Washington plays a less important role . Meanwhile , Israelis , Nigerians and Kenyans are particularly likely to think the U.S. is more important than it used to be .
Amid calls to `` defund the police , '' only a quarter of Americans said in June that they favor a reduction in spending on policing in their area . The largest share of Americans ( 42 % ) preferred spending on policing in their area to stay about the same , while 31 % said spending on police should be increased . Support for police spending cuts was higher – but still short of a majority – among adults under 30 , Black adults and those who identify as Democratic or lean to the Democratic Party .
Online Americans especially highlight how the internet and cell phones have made them better informed about products and services available for sale , national and international news , and popular culture . Asked if their internet use affected their being better informed on these issues compared with five years ago :
Though each of these potential enhancements raises unique social and ethical implications , the public 's views about the three enhancements have similar contours . Technologies that would bring more dramatic or extreme changes to human abilities are generally less acceptable to the American public than are technologies that cause less dramatic or temporary changes . For example , 47 % of Americans consider the use of synthetic blood substitutes to improve physical abilities an `` appropriate use of technology '' if the resulting change to people 's speed , strength and stamina would be `` equal to their own peak abilities . '' But if the same enhancement results in physical abilities `` far above that of any human known to date , '' far fewer ( 28 % ) say it would be an appropriate use of technology .
French Muslims do share many opinions with their co-religionists in neighboring countries . Primary among them is concern about joblessness . More than half of French Muslims ( 52 % ) say they are very worried about unemployment among Muslims — the primary complaint of last fall 's rioters — and an additional 32 % say they are somewhat concerned . These levels are comparable to those expressed by Spanish , German and , to a slightly lesser degree , by British Muslims . ( Curiously , among French Muslims , only 48 % of those under age 35 say they are very worried about unemployment compared with 59 % of their elders . )
India lags behind other emerging nations in internet access and smartphone ownership . Across the 21 emerging and developing nations surveyed in 2015 ( including India ) , a median of 54 % have internet access and 37 % own smartphones . In India , however , only 22 % have internet access and only 17 % have a smartphone . Like most of the 40 countries surveyed in 2015 , there are big demographic differences in internet access . Younger , more-educated and higher-income Indians are more likely to use the web than older , less-educated and lower-income Indians ( relative to the median household income within India ) . Men are also more likely to have access than women , as are Indians residing in the wealthier North and West regions of India where major cities like Delhi and Mumbai are located compared with the less prosperous South and East . Overall , these patterns hold true among India 's smartphone users as well .
Bisexual adults are much less likely than gays and lesbians to be `` out '' to the important people in their lives , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of recently released survey data from Stanford University . Only 19 % of those who identify as bisexual say all or most of the important people in their lives are aware of their sexual orientation . In contrast , 75 % of gay and lesbian adults say the same . About one-quarter of bisexual adults ( 26 % ) are not `` out '' to any of the important people in their lives , compared with 4 % of gay and lesbian adults . Roughly half of those who are bisexual ( 54 % ) are out to some or only a few people .
A new national survey by Pew Research Center of 1,503 adults , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 , 2018 , finds that strengthening the economy continues to rank among the public 's leading priorities ( 71 % top priority ) , along with defending against terrorism ( 73 % ) and improving the educational system ( 72 % ) . However , fewer view the economy as a top priority than did so four ( 80 % ) or eight ( 83 % ) years ago . Over the same period , the share rating improving the job situation as a top priority also has declined ; 62 % say this today , its lowest point in a decade . In 2014 , 74 % viewed the job situation as a top priority and 81 % did so in 2010 . Reducing the budget deficit also has declined among the public 's policy priorities . Currently , just 48 % say cutting the deficit should be a top policy priority for the president and Congress , down from 63 % in 2014 . A year earlier , in 2013 , the share citing the deficit as a top priority was high as at any point in the past two decades ( 72 % ) .
The decline in Prime Minister Abe 's support comes at a time of public dissatisfaction with the state of Japanese democracy . Just four-in-ten of those surveyed ( 40 % ) are satisfied with the way their democracy is working today . Such positive sentiment is down from 50 % in 2017 . At the same time , a majority of Japanese ( 56 % ) are dissatisfied with their democracy , up 9 percentage points from 2017 .
About six-in-ten Republicans ( 59 % ) say they are very ( 12 % ) or somewhat ( 47 % ) optimistic about the future of the Republican Party . In December 2016 , nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said they were very ( 28 % ) or somewhat ( 51 % ) optimistic . Republican views are now comparable to what they were on the eve of the 2016 election : Last November , 61 % expressed optimism about their party 's future .
The survey finds that the public gives positive marks to Trump on keeping his promises ( 60 % say he does this ) and his ability to get things done ( 54 % ) . However , on seven other traits and characteristics – ranging from his temperament to whether he is a good manager – he is viewed more negatively .
Events of the last few years have taken their toll on U.S.-Canadian relations , but cross-border ties still remain stronger than U.S. ties with Europe . The image of the U.S. in Canada slipped modestly with the war in Iraq , from a 72 % favorability rating before the war to 63 % after the conflict , a 9 point drop . But compared with the reaction among some other American allies , this decline in support was relatively modest . U.S. favorability fell 20 points in France and 16 points in Germany over the same period . Similarly , five-in-ten Canadians ( 54 % ) still think they should maintain close security and diplomatic ties with the United States . Only two-in-ten ( 23 % ) of the French and four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of the Germans agree .
The origins of U.S. refugees in fiscal 2018 align with the shift in religious affiliation . No Muslim-majority countries are represented among the top five nationalities of refugees admitted so far this fiscal year . By contrast , three of the top five origin countries of refugees in fiscal 2017 had Muslim-majority populations – Iraq , Syria and Somalia .
The survey also finds widespread concern about rising prices : 85 % say this is a major problem in the country . And at least two-thirds also say a lack of employment opportunities and the gap between the rich and the poor are very big problems . In addition to economic concerns , large majorities also describe crime ( 83 % ) , health care ( 83 % ) , political corruption ( 78 % ) and poor quality schools ( 64 % ) as major problems . To be sure , these are not new challenges in Brazil . Pew Research surveys conducted since 2010 have documented similarly widespread concern with a range of social , political and economic issues , including crime , corruption and inflation . But the current level of frustration Brazilians express with their country 's direction , its economy and its leaders is unmatched in recent years .
One-third of U.S. adults say medical health experts understand very well who is most at risk for serious illness from the coronavirus , and about half ( 52 % ) say they understand who is at risk fairly well . Another 15 % say that medical health experts understand who is most at risk from COVID-19 not too or not at all well . Assessments of public health experts are lower by comparison . Roughly one-quarter ( 23 % ) of U.S. adults say public health experts understand how to slow the spread of the coronavirus very well , half think public health experts understand this fairly well and another 26 % say experts understand this not too or not at all well .
In 2016 voters were about evenly divided in the share saying that the growing number of newcomers strengthens American society ( 46 % ) and the share who said they threaten traditional American customs and values ( 50 % ) . Today , six-in-ten American voters ( 60 % ) say that newcomers strengthen American society and 37 % say they threaten traditional customs and values . Supporters of both major party candidates this year are more likely than 2016 supporters to have positive views of immigrants to the United States , but the gap between supporters of the Republican and Democratic candidates is little different than it was four years ago . Today , more than eight-in-ten Biden supporters ( 84 % ) say the growing share of newcomers in the U.S. strengthens American society , up from 71 % among Clinton supporters in 2016 . By comparison , a much smaller share of Trump supporters ( 32 % ) view immigration as strengthening society . Still , that is up from just 19 % among Trump supporters in 2016 .
Officers who have fired their weapon differ from their colleagues on other issues as well . For example , they are somewhat more likely to approve of harsh , physical methods for dealing with some people than their colleagues who have not discharged their gun ( 49 % vs 42 % ) . They also are somewhat more likely to say that the country has made the changes needed to assure equal rights for blacks than to believe more changes are needed ( 85 % among those who have fired their service weapon vs. 79 % among officers who have not ) . Again , the relationship between these attitudes and whether or not an officer has fired his or her service weapon is statistically significant even after controlling for other factors in the analysis .
Law and order is a priority for most Tunisians – 81 % believe that stability is crucial for Tunisia 's future . More than six-in-ten also think that the freedom to peacefully protest ( 68 % ) , equal rights for women ( 66 % ) , freedom to criticize the government ( 64 % ) and an uncensored media ( 63 % ) are critical for Tunisia 's future .
NATO publics support economic aid , but do not favor arming Ukraine . Most people in the eight NATO countries surveyed ( a median of 70 % ) are happy to see Western countries send economic aid to Ukraine . Many also support Ukraine joining NATO and , in half the EU countries surveyed , favor Ukraine joining the European Union . But people in these NATO countries made it clear that they did not support sending arms to Ukraine – a median of just 41 % supported doing so . Skepticism about sending arms was highest in Germany , Spain and Italy , while support for arming Ukraine was more common in Poland , the U.S. and Canada . The West and Russia disagree over what has caused the conflict . A median of 39 % across the eight NATO countries surveyed say that Russia is to blame for the crisis in Ukraine , more than blame the pro-Russian separatists ( median of 18 % ) , the Ukrainian government ( 9 % ) or Western countries ( 7 % ) . Ukrainians agree , with 45 % blaming Russia for the violence in eastern Ukraine . However , half in Russia blame Western countries , such as those in Europe and the U.S. , for the Ukraine crisis . Around a quarter in Russia ( 26 % ) blame the current government in Kyiv , but only 2 % name Russia as the primary cause of the conflict .
While a majority of voters ( 69 % ) are white non-Hispanics , nonwhite voters now make up an increasing share of all voters : 29 % of registered voters are African American , Hispanic or Asian American or belong to another race , up from 16 % in 1997 . Nonwhites constitute nearly four-in-ten Democratic voters ( 39 % ) , compared with 24 % two decades ago . The GOP coalition also has become more racially and ethnically diverse , but nonwhites make up only 14 % of Republican voters , up from 8 % in 1997 . The educational makeup of the two parties ' electorates also has changed substantially over the past two decades . When race and education are taken into account , white voters who do to not have a college degree make up a diminished share of Democratic registered voters . White voters who do not have a four-year degree now constitute just a third of Democratic voters , down from 56 % two decades ago . By contrast , non-college white voters continue to make up a majority of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters ( 59 % now , 66 % in 1997 ) .
The vote to leave reflects the desire of nearly two-thirds of the UK public to bring back some EU powers from Brussels to London . Fully 65 % of the British said before the referendum that they wanted some EU powers to be returned to their national government . This included 73 % of those ages 50 and older , 70 % of men , 68 % of those with a secondary education or less , 93 % of UK Independence Party supporters , 77 % of Conservative Party adherents and 49 % of Labour Party backers .
Large majorities in all three nations believe that elites have prospered over the last two decades , while average citizens have not . In Ukraine , for instance , 95 % think politicians have benefited a great deal or a fair amount from the changes since 1991 , and 76 % say this about business owners . However , just 11 % believe ordinary people have benefited .
Minerals and metals , as it happens , are one of the classes of imports on which the U.S. has had particularly low tariffs , according to data from the latest `` World Tariff Profiles '' report , produced jointly by the World Trade Organization , International Trade Centre and UN Conference on Trade and Development . The `` average most-favored-nation applied duty '' on minerals and metals was 1.7 % , or 125th out of 138 countries and other economic units . ( The `` most favored nation , '' or MFN , part of that metric refers to the tariffs each WTO member country promises to apply to all other WTO members , unless they 're part of a free trade area , customs union or other `` preferential trade agreement . '' Also , the report treats the 28-member European Union as a single entity , and it covers Hong Kong and Macao separately from the rest of China . )
Meanwhile , public support for adding private accounts to Social Security , which declined over the winter , has largely stabilized over the past three months . Since February , there has consistently been a slim plurality ( currently 47 % ) in favor of the idea of allowing younger workers to invest a portion of their Social Security taxes in private retirement accounts , though nearly as many ( 40 % ) are opposed . Bush 's endorsement of this proposal is not mentioned in this survey question .
One area of agreement between Clinton and Trump supporters is expanding both solar and wind energy sources . About nine-in-ten Clinton supporters ( 91 % ) and 84 % of Trump supporters say they favor more solar panel farms . Roughly similar shares of Clinton supporters ( 88 % ) and Trump supporters ( 77 % ) support more wind turbine farms .
More blacks than whites see at least strong conflicts between their two groups ( 76 % vs. 61 % ) , including close to twice as many who say they are very strong ( 38 % vs. 21 % ) . Nearly seven-in-ten Hispanics ( 69 % ) also see strong conflicts , including 42 % who say they are very strong .
Catholics and Protestants also express varying levels of confidence in their clergy 's advice about personal issues and religious topics . Only three-in-ten Catholics , for instance , say they have `` a lot '' of confidence in their clergy 's guidance about marriage and relationships . Larger shares of evangelical Protestants ( 66 % ) , Protestants in the historically black tradition ( 54 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 45 % ) say the same . And Catholics are much less likely than Protestants overall to trust their religious leaders to give useful advice on parenting ( 23 % vs. 49 % , respectively ) . However , both Protestants and Catholics express fairly low levels of confidence in their clergy to provide guidance on political topics such as abortion , immigration and global climate change . While Pope Francis regularly speaks about immigration and climate change , small shares of Catholic Mass-goers have a lot of confidence in their clergy 's guidance on immigration ( 16 % ) and global climate change ( 8 % ) . Among Protestants , one-in-five or fewer have a lot of confidence in their clergy to provide guidance on these issues .
The results show that many non-Muslims associate negative traits with Muslims . Majorities in Nigeria , India , Spain , Russia , and Germany see Muslims as violent . Large numbers , including majorities in India , Nigeria , and Russia , also consider Muslims arrogant . Many also associate selfishness with Muslims , although India is the only country where a majority does so . Non-Muslims are less likely to rate Muslims as greedy or immoral — in France for instance , only 10 % say Muslims are greedy and just 18 % label Muslims as immoral . The data on Muslim attitudes towards Westerners also reveal a variety of negative views . In the five majority Muslim countries , as well as Nigeria , at least 40 % of Muslims characterize Westerners as arrogant , violent , greedy , and immoral ; meanwhile , relatively few say Westerners are generous or honest . Muslims in these countries are also especially likely to say Westerners are selfish — in all six countries , majorities suggest selfishness is common among people in Europe and the United States . Negative assessments of Westerners are fairly common across all six of these countries , although they are slightly more prevalent in Jordan and Indonesia . In contrast , European Muslims are consistently less likely to associate negative characteristics with Westerners and are more likely to label them as generous and honest .
With respect to the ongoing conflict in Syria , publics are divided on how long they expect it to continue ; a median of 26 % expect the war in Syria to end in the next year , 32 % expect it to end in the next five years and 29 % think it will continue for more than five years . Overall , just 32 % in Jordan are optimistic about the war ending in the next year , but 64 % of Syrians living in Jordan expect the conflict will end in 2018 . Additionally , on the issue of allowing Syrian refugees into their country , people in Jordan , Turkey and Lebanon are strongly in favor of letting in fewer , with many volunteering `` none '' as the best option .
And 75 % agree it would be `` better for the economy for undocumented immigrants to gain legal status and become legal workers . '' Far fewer Americans say that legalization would have a negative impact on jobs . About half ( 51 % ) say that `` granting undocumented immigrants legal status would take jobs from U.S . citizens . ''
18 '' Bots '' on Twitter may be behind more link sharing than human beings . An estimated two-thirds of tweeted links to popular news and media websites ( 66 % ) are posted by automated accounts , while around a third ( 34 % ) are posted by human accounts , based on a sample of tweets from 2017 . A relatively small number of highly active bots appear to be responsible for many of those links .
Those who consistently stayed with their parties expressed strong views of Trump , both positive and negative . In April 2017 , 84 % of those who consistently identified with or leaned toward the Republican Party approved of Trump 's job performance – with 66 % approving strongly .
Only 13 % of Americans , however , have a great deal of confidence that space companies will sufficiently address the debris problem , while 51 % have not too much or no confidence , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Yet , the same survey finds that , among the 7 % of the public that is highly attentive to space news – those who say they have heard `` a lot '' about NASA in the past year and `` a lot '' about private space companies – some 37 % have a great deal of confidence that private companies will minimize space debris .
The life goals of Latinos overlap with some of these ingredients of the American dream . The two goals rated most highly by Latinos were being a good parent ( 51 % ) and having the resources to provide for their family ( 49 % ) . Owning a home – often seen as a key part of the American dream – was cited by 33 % of Hispanics as an extremely important life goal for them . Other top goals for Hispanics included having a successful marriage ( 30 % ) and being successful in a high-paying career or profession ( 22 % ) .
Among Americans who are employed or have been looking for work , increased outsourcing of jobs to other countries tops the list of trends they say have hurt their job or career . Three-in-ten say this is the case , compared with roughly one-in-five ( 22 % ) who say the same about the growing number of immigrants working in the U.S. and 20 % who blame a rise in imports . Overall , however , majorities say these factors have n't made much difference in their job or career .
These data provide an incomplete answer . In addition to being asked how often their job makes them feel angry or frustrated , police officers were asked how often they feel fulfilled by their job . In a separate Pew Research Center survey of the general public conducted Aug. 16-Sept. 12 , 2016 , the 2,767 employed adults included in the survey were asked how often their jobs make them feel frustrated or fulfilled . The question measuring job-related anger was not asked in the general public survey , however .
A more comprehensive database maintained by USA Today lists 38 public mass killings since 2006 ; all but four were shootings . Since 2006 , the number of public mass killings each year has varied between 3 and 6 . The year 2012 , which saw both the Aurora , Colo. , and Newtown , Conn. , massacres , had by far the most total fatalities ( 63 ) .
Although it is common to use at least one of these platforms , relatively few adults ( median of 20 % ) say they currently use three or more social media platforms or messaging apps . This level of use is most common in Lebanon and Jordan , where about four-in-ten say they use three or more of these apps ( 42 % and 38 % , respectively ) . About three-in-ten say the same in Venezuela ( 31 % ) , Colombia ( 29 % ) and Mexico ( 27 % ) . People in India ( 9 % ) , the Philippines ( 9 % ) and Vietnam ( 5 % ) are the least likely to report using three or more of these apps .
There are similar fault lines on two related questions : How voters expect to feel if Trump is reelected , and whether Americans overall approve of the job he is doing as president . Most white evangelical Protestant voters say they would be relieved ( 43 % ) or excited ( 36 % ) if Trump wins reelection , while most black Protestants say they would be disappointed ( 60 % ) or angry ( 32 % ) . Religiously unaffiliated voters would also feel negatively about another Trump victory , while Catholics are roughly evenly split between those who say they would have positive and negative emotions .
Even as Americans hold mixed views about the importance of such statements , they have become fairly common following the global protests that erupted in response to the killing of Floyd in police custody on Memorial Day . This survey finds that a vast majority of adults ( 80 % ) say they have seen or heard companies and organizations making public statements about race or racial inequality in the past few months , with majorities across racial and ethnic groups and political parties saying this . Majorities across racial and ethnic groups think pressure from others has contributed a great deal to these statements . But white adults who have come across recent statements from firms about race or racial inequality are more likely to express this sentiment – with 73 % saying this compared with about six-in-ten of the same group of Black , Hispanic or Asian adults . On the other hand , Hispanic ( 31 % ) and Black ( 30 % ) Americans are about twice as likely as Asian ( 16 % ) or white Americans ( 14 % ) to believe genuine concerns for Black people motivated companies a great deal to make statements about race or racial inequality .
Seven-in-ten U.S. adults say it is at least somewhat likely that their own phone calls and emails are being monitored by the government , including 37 % who believe that this type of surveillance is `` very likely , '' according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in February . Most notably , nearly eight-in-ten U.S. adults under the age of 50 think it is likely that the government is tracking their communications , compared with around six-in-ten of those 50 and older .
A significant minority of American adults have felt confused , discouraged or impatient when trying to make decisions about sharing their personal information with companies . When asked if they felt confident they understood what would be done with their personal information as they were deciding whether or not to share it , 50 % said they felt confident they understood – but 47 % said they were not confident .
Black Democrats also are more likely than other Democrats to say morality is linked to a belief in God . A 55 % majority of black Democrats say `` it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral , '' while 44 % say it is not necessary . By contrast , a large majority of white Democrats ( 89 % ) and a narrower majority of Hispanic Democrats ( 57 % ) say a belief in God is not necessary to be moral .
One demographic measure where the three metro areas are similar is the marital status of their Catholic populations . Nearly or roughly half of Catholic adults in New York ( 50 % ) , Philadelphia ( 45 % ) and Washington , D.C. , ( 45 % ) are married , similar to U.S. Catholics overall ( 52 % ) . About one-in-ten Catholics in each area ( and in the country as a whole ) report that they are currently living with a romantic partner outside of marriage .
Specific policy debates related to policing also bring out important differences in opinion between black and white officers . Black officers , for instance , are substantially more likely than white officers ( 71 % vs. 46 % ) to say that body cameras – which have been promoted as a way to improve police accountability – would make officers more likely to act appropriately when dealing with the public .
Opinions about the state of the country are strongly associated with religiosity . A solid majority ( 64 % ) of Muslim Turks who pray five times a day are satisfied with the direction of the nation . Among those who pray at least once a week but less than five times daily , only 41 % are satisfied . And among those who hardly ever pray or only do so during religious holidays , just 32 % express satisfaction .
The Center 's survey of teens does show stark differences in teens ' computer access based on their household income . A quarter of teens whose family income is less than $ 30,000 a year do not have access to a home computer , compared with 4 % of those whose annual family income is $ 75,000 or more .
That figure compares with about three-quarters of stories that cited Trump or a member of his administration , 35 % that cited another news outlet or journalist , 26 % that cited a Republican member of Congress and 21 % that cited a Democratic member . Stories that cited a member of the public also are less common than those that cite an expert or an interest group .
Across these positive statements , Black , Hispanic and Asian users often have more similar views than White users . Around three-quarters of Black , Hispanic and Asian users say the statement `` social media help give a voice to underrepresented groups '' describes social media very or somewhat well , compared with a smaller share of White users ( 58 % ) who agree , according to July 2020 data .
For example , 35 % of national political tweeters say they have contacted an elected official within the last year , compared with 14 % of nonpolitical tweeters and 21 % of infrequent tweeters . Political tweeters are also more likely than the other two groups to say they have attended a political rally or protest or contributed money to a candidate running for office in the last year .
Trials are rare in the federal criminal justice system – and acquittals are even rarer . Nearly 80,000 people were defendants in federal criminal cases in fiscal 2018 , but just 2 % of them went to trial . The overwhelming majority ( 90 % ) pleaded guilty instead , while the remaining 8 % had their cases dismissed , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data collected by the federal judiciary . Put another way , only 320 of 79,704 total federal defendants – fewer than 1 % – went to trial and won their cases , at least in the form of an acquittal , according to the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts . These statistics include all defendants charged in U.S. district courts with felonies and serious misdemeanors , as well as some defendants charged with petty offenses . They do not include federal defendants whose cases were handled by magistrate judges , or the much broader universe of defendants in state courts . Defendants who enter pleas of `` no contest '' are also excluded .
Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) said the Supreme Court has the right amount of power . Similar shares of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 66 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 64 % ) said the court has the right amount of power , according to a national Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 among 11,001 adults . A smaller majority ( 56 % ) viewed the Supreme Court as middle of the road rather than liberal or conservative . Republicans ( 66 % ) were more likely than Democrats ( 47 % ) to say the court is middle of the road . Nearly half of Democrats ( 47 % ) – including 58 % of liberal Democrats – saw the court as conservative , compared with just 12 % of Republicans .
Despite growing security threats to member countries , most NATO members appear reluctant to boost their own countries ' military spending . About a third ( median of 32 % ) across the NATO nations surveyed say their country should increase its national defense spending , while nearly half ( median of 47 % ) want to keep spending the same and 14 % favor decreasing defense spending .
The same survey found that a majority of Americans ( 65 % ) believe the Supreme Court has the right amount of power , rather than too much ( 25 % ) or too little ( 8 % ) . There were few partisan differences in these views .
Women are more likely than men to say America 's openness to foreigners is essential ( 70 % vs. 55 % ) . In addition , there are sizable age differences , with adults under 30 more likely than older people to express this view .
Americans and Germans have different views about what the most important aspect of the U.S.-German relationship is . Roughly a third of Americans say the most important aspects of the relationship – from a list of three options – are security and defense ties ( 34 % ) and economic and trade ties ( 33 % ) . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) name shared democratic values as the pre-eminent aspect of the relationship . Most Germans , by contrast , say economic connections are the most critical ( 45 % ) , with about a third saying democratic values are the keystone of the transatlantic relationship ( 35 % ) . Only 16 % of Germans cite defense ties .
The survey found that almost three in four Latino adults are either themselves without health insurance or personally know someone who does not have insurance coverage . In addition , a substantial minority of Latinos reports health care challenges , such as problems paying medical bills , delays seeking care because of costs , and not getting needed health care services . Furthermore , some Latinos report having problems communicating with health care providers due to language barriers , or having difficulty getting care due to their race and ethnic background . Over one-third of Latino adults report lacking health insurance . In addition , almost six in ten ( 59 % ) of those who do have health insurance say that they personally know someone who does not ( 38 % of all Latinos ) . Together , 73 % of Latinos either lack health insurance coverage themselves , or know someone who is uninsured ( see Chart 1 ) .
A majority of those age 18 to 29 ( 61 % ) say the U.S. should take into account allies ' interests even if it means making compromises . Only about a third ( 36 % ) say the U.S. should follow its own interests when allies strongly disagree . Adults age 65 and older are about evenly divided ( 47 % vs. 44 % ) . Large majorities of postgraduates ( 74 % ) and four-year college graduates ( 68 % ) say the U.S. should take allies ' interests into account . About half of those with some college education ( 52 % ) and 44 % of those with a high school education or less agree . Whites without a college degree are about equally divided between compromising with allies ( 48 % ) and following U.S. national interests when allies disagree ( 45 % ) . College-educated whites largely favor taking into account allies ' interests and compromising when necessary ( 70 % say this ) .
About two-in-ten Americans ( 21 % ) say they have ever spoken with or been interviewed by a local journalist , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Among those who have , the likelihood varies by personal characteristics .
When it comes to international perceptions of Russia , a majority of Russians say their country should be more respected around the world . Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say Russia does not get enough respect , with only about half that ( 32 % ) saying Russia is as respected around the world as it should be . These sentiments are largely unchanged since 2017 , but since 2012 , feelings that Russia is as respected as it should be have doubled .
Among the things teens choose to share on social media , their real name and photos of themselves rank the highest . What else do they share ?
Most people ( 58 % ) express little or no concern about becoming exposed to Ebola , though that is down from 67 % in early October . And majorities have at least a fair amount of confidence in both the federal government and U.S. hospitals to deal with the disease .
Women 's expressed desire for the top spot varied markedly by age and race , though among all subgroups women were less likely than men to say so . Only 29 % of white women said they 'd like to be a boss or top manager someday , as opposed to 53 % of black women and 51 % of Hispanic women . And 61 % of Millennial women ( ages 18 to 32 ) said they wanted to be a boss someday , compared with 41 % of Gen-X women ( ages 33 to 48 ) and 21 % of Baby Boomer women ( ages 49 to 67 ) .
Since at least 2012 , Americans have been more likely to say there are strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans than exist between other groups in U.S. society , such as rich and poor people , young and older people , and black and white people . About nine-in-ten Americans ( 91 % ) say that conflicts between the party coalitions are either strong or very strong , according to a Pew Research Center survey in January . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say these conflicts are very strong .
As the Supreme Court 's current term concludes , public opinion is evenly divided about how the justices should interpret the Constitution when determining their rulings . Half of Americans ( 50 % ) say the Court 's rulings should be based on its understanding of what the U.S. Constitution means in current times , while about as many ( 45 % ) say rulings should be based on its understanding of what the Constitution meant as originally written .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 25 - 29 among 1,005 adults , finds that 26 % overall say they are angry at the federal government , while 51 % feel frustrated . Just 17 % say they are basically content with the government . As in the past , substantial majorities across the political spectrum are either angry or frustrated with the federal government . But anger at the government is far more widespread among conservative Republicans than other partisan groups . This marks a change from 2011 , when political independents ( 30 % angry ) were about as likely as conservative Republicans ( 32 % ) to express anger at the federal government . In the new survey , 41 % of conservative Republicans say they feel angry at the government , compared with 27 % of independents . Conservative Republicans are roughly twice as likely as liberal Democrats to say they are angry with government ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) .
Educational attainment helps explain this variation . Among borrowers of all ages with outstanding student loan debt , the median self-reported amount owed among those with less than a bachelor 's degree was $ 10,000 in 2016 . Bachelor 's degree holders owed a median of $ 25,000 , while those with a postgraduate degree owed a median of $ 45,000 .
Current Republican national leadership includes Rep. Paul Ryan ( age 43 ) with a 65 % favorable rating among Republicans and Independents who lean Republican according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Not far behind Ryan is Sen. Rand Paul ( age 50 ) who has a 55 % favorable rating . He is closely followed by 42-year-old Sen. Marco Rubio with a 50 % favorable rating . Gov . Chris Christie at age 50 gets a 47 % favorable rating from the GOP faithful . In contrast , the Republican party 's older establishment leadership : House Speaker John Boehner ( age 63 ) and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell ( 71 ) get markedly lower ratings . The youngest Republican , Sen. Ted Cruz ( age 40 ) , is still not well known by most Republicans nationally .
By contrast , both less affluent and less educated church shoppers are more likely to value the potential social connections , religious education and community service offered by a church . Roughly six-in-ten ( 62 % ) of those with a high school degree or less say that access to religious education for children played an important role in their choice of congregation , compared with about half ( 51 % ) of college-educated adults .
Today , more than six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Latinos say that discrimination against Hispanics is a `` major problem , '' up from 54 % who said that in 2007 . Asked to state the most important factor leading to discrimination , a plurality of 36 % now cites immigration status , up from a minority of 23 % who said the same in 2007 . Back then , a plurality of respondents—46 % —identified language skills as the biggest cause of discrimination against Hispanics ( Pew Hispanic Center , 2007 ) . The native born and foreign born have different views on many topics explored in the survey . For example , seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) foreign-born Latinos say discrimination against Hispanics is a major problem preventing Latinos from succeeding in America . Less than half ( 49 % ) of the native born agree . And when it comes to their views of immigrants , fewer than seven-in-ten native-born Hispanics say immigrants strengthen the country , while 85 % of immigrant Hispanics say the same .
Majorities of Millennials ( those born between 1981 and 1997 ) , Generation X ( born between 1965 and 1980 ) and Baby Boomers ( born between 1946 and 1964 ) say the use of marijuana should be legal . Members of the Silent Generation ( born between 1928 and 1945 ) continue to be the least supportive of legalization : Only 35 % favor legalizing marijuana , while 64 % are opposed .
Proponents of open data hope that a variety of benefits might emerge from greater transparency about government activities , from more public accountability to better customer service . Majorities are hopeful that open data can help journalists cover government more thoroughly ( 56 % do ) and 53 % say open data can make government officials more accountable . Combining those who respond affirmatively to these propositions means that 66 % of Americans harbor hopes that open data will improve government accountability . When looking at government performance , however , people are less optimistic , with less than half of Americans saying open data can help the quality of government services or officials ' decisions .
Additionally , blacks as compared with whites , and those living in the South and Northeast are more inclined to see Zika as a threat to public health . Some 46 % of blacks , compared with 27 % of whites , believe Zika is a major threat to the population . ( The 39 % of Hispanics saying Zika is a major threat is not statistically different than the share saying the same among either blacks or whites . ) These findings are in line with previous surveys showing a higher level of concern among blacks about some health issues , particularly about experimental-health matters . There were also regional differences about the level of threat Zika poses . Some 39 % of Northeasterners and 35 % of Southerners believe the Zika virus is a major threat to the American population , compared with 21 % of Westerners and 28 % of Midwesterners who say they think the threat level is high .
Republicans retain 91 % of those who said in the June survey that they would choose the Republican candidate for Congress , while 92 % of voters who chose a Democrat for Congress in June remain committed to a Democratic candidate . About half of voters who chose a third party candidate or were not sure of their vote in June now support one of the two major parties in October , splitting about evenly between Republicans and Democrats ( 30 % Republican , 24 % Democratic ) .
Overall , 85 % of teens in a romantic relationship expect to hear from their partner or significant other at least once a day , if not more often . 11 % expect to hear from their partner hourly . 35 % expect to hear something every few hours . 38 % expect to hear from their significant other once a day .
A year ago , Japanese were divided over whether the use of nuclear power in Japan should be reduced ( 44 % ) or maintained at its current level ( 46 % ) . Only 8 % said reliance on nuclear power should be increased . Since then , the number who believe Japan should reduce its dependence on nuclear energy has surged to 70 % , while support for maintaining nuclear power use at current levels has fallen to fewer than half that number ( 25 % ) . Just 4 % of Japanese say the country should expand the use of nuclear power .
About three-quarters of Trump supporters ( 76 % ) say they have recently had a conversation about the election with a fellow Trump supporter , while only about half as many ( 37 % ) have discussed the election with someone who favors Clinton . Clinton supporters are similarly one-sided in their political discussions : 72 % say recent conversations about the election have been with other Clinton supporters , while just 40 % say they have been with Trump backers .
Fewer say there is at least some chance they would vote for Ron Paul ( 42 % ) or Michelle Bachmann ( 39 % ) . Substantial majorities of those who have heard of Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich have ruled out voting for them ; 67 % say there is no chance they would vote for Palin while 66 % say there is no chance they would vote for Gingrich .
Yet on four other items there is no significant difference in values by financial status . Between 52 % and 57 % across all financial categories say stricter environmental laws and regulations are worth the cost . Similarly , virtually identical percentages in all groups say that government regulation of business is necessary to protect the public interest .
Asked why they think 2019 will be better than 2018 , 24 % of Republicans volunteer Trump as the reason , while 20 % cite the economy . Roughly one-in-ten ( 12 % ) point to expectations around border security and immigration , including the possible expansion of the U.S.-Mexico border wall .
As the solar energy industry gears up to add more electricity-generating capacity than any other source this year , a new Pew Research Center survey finds that almost nine-in-ten U.S. adults ( 89 % ) favor expanding use of solar power , while only 9 % oppose it . That sentiment bridges the partisan divide , with large majorities from across the political spectrum favoring more use of this alternative source .
Fewer cite other considerations as major reasons why they identify with their party . About half of Democrats ( 51 % ) and 45 % of Republicans cite having a lot in common with other members of their party as a major reason .
As the death toll from the novel coronavirus pandemic continues to spiral , most Americans do not foresee a quick end to the crisis . In fact , 73 % of U.S. adults say that in thinking about the problems the country is facing from the coronavirus outbreak , the worst is still to come . With the Trump administration and many state governors actively considering ways to revive the stalled U.S. economy , the public strikes a decidedly cautious note on easing strict limits on public activity . About twice as many Americans say their greater concern is that state governments will lift restrictions on public activity too quickly ( 66 % ) as say it will not happen quickly enough ( 32 % ) .
A total of 38,901 Muslim refugees entered the U.S. in fiscal year 2016 , making up almost half ( 46 % ) of the nearly 85,000 refugees who entered the country in that period , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the State Department 's Refugee Processing Center . That means the U.S. has admitted the highest number of Muslim refugees of any year since data on self-reported religious affiliations first became publicly available in 2002 . Almost the same number of Christian ( 37,521 ) as Muslim refugees were admitted in fiscal 2016 , which ended Sept. 30 . A slightly lower share of 2016 's refugees were Christian ( 44 % ) than Muslim , the first time that has happened since fiscal 2006 , when a large number of Somali refugees entered the U.S .
A survey of 20 countries conducted last spring by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project found a median of 67 % of social networkers say they use these sites to share opinions about music and movies . Significant numbers also post their views on community issues , sports and politics .
A median of 78 % in the eight countries surveyed say a lack of jobs is a very big problem in their country . And a median of 71 % cite the public debt . Except in Germany , overwhelming majorities in many countries say unemployment , the public debt , rising prices and the gap between the rich and the poor are very important problems . Unemployment is the number one worry in seven of the eight countries . Inequality is the principle concern in Germany .
The Trump administration also gets low marks from the public for its ethical standards : 39 % say the administration 's ethical standards are excellent or good , while 58 % rate them as not good or poor . On these views partisans are deeply divided , with three-quarters of Republicans ( 75 % ) giving the administration high marks and 86 % of Democrats rating its ethical standards negatively .
VSS estimates that , by 2016 , the share of these fees as a percentage of overall station revenue will have doubled compared to 2011 . Another financial information firm , SNL Kagan has an even more bullish projection , estimating that by 2018 , retransmission revenue will account for more than 20 % of TV stations ' ad revenues .
UPDATE , 12:58 p.m . The new Millennials report from Pew Research shows strong support across generations for maintaining Social Security benefits at current levels ( even though half of Millennials and Gen-Xers say they do n't expect to receive any Social Security benefits when they retire ) . Debra Whitman of AARP says her group 's research has found that younger generations ( Boomers and Gen-Xers ) support Social Security because , with the erosion of defined-benefit pensions and 401 ( k ) s whipsawed by the stock market , they 're counting on it more .
Majorities of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to protect key aspects of the environment including water ( 69 % ) and air quality ( 64 % ) . And two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say the government is doing too little to reduce the effects of climate change . These findings come after a year of change in climate and energy regulatory policies under the Trump administration .
Accompanying technological advancements are greater digital security risks – another focus of the G20 . People in most surveyed G20 countries say it is likely that cyberattacks will damage public infrastructure like power grids or internet systems . People in Japan , South Korea and the U.S. are especially concerned , with more than eight-in-ten adults in each country saying that such cyberattacks are likely .
As Egyptians head to the polls , the economy is their biggest concern , according to the Pew survey conducted March 19 to April 10 . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) consider improving the economy a very important priority for the country . Only 27 % describe the current economic situation as good . And regardless of which candidate wins the presidency , he will face high economic expectations – 50 % think the economy will improve in the next 12 months ; just 20 % say it will get worse . Moreover , Egyptians do not just voice support for democracy in a general sense – they also want specific democratic rights and institutions . In particular , they want a fair judiciary : 81 % consider it is very important to live in a country with a judicial system that treats everyone in the same way . About six-in-ten say it is very important to live in a country with a free press ( 62 % ) ; free speech ( 60 % ) ; and honest , competitive elections with at least two political parties ( 58 % ) . In addition to these fundamental components of democracy , Egyptians also want order : 60 % rate law and order as very important .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted Sept. 4-Oct. 1 , 2018 , Facebook users were directed to open and review their own ad preference page in order to complete the survey . That survey found that roughly nine-in-ten U.S. adults who use Facebook reported that they had information compiled about them on their Facebook ad preferences page . But a new analysis of this data finds that how Facebook categorizes these users , when it comes to the number of categories and their accuracy , varies by how often someone uses the platform . Frequent Facebook use – as well as having an account for a longer period of time – generally results in more ad categories . Nearly four-in-ten Facebook users ( 37 % ) who saw categories listed on their ad preferences page found 21 or more categories , whereas 30 % found one to nine categories . When accounting for how often they use the site , some 44 % of Facebook users who said they use the site several times a day reported finding 21 or more categories listed on the ad preferences page , compared with 34 % of those who use the site once a day and 20 % of those who said they use the site less often . There are also differences when it comes to how long a user has been on Facebook . The longer a person has had an account on the platform , the more categories Facebook lists for them . About half of users with Facebook accounts that were more than a decade old ( 52 % ) at the time of the survey reported finding 21 or more categories listed on their ad preferences page . In comparison , 36 % of accounts 5 to 10 years old and 27 % of accounts less than 5 years old had more than 20 categories listed . About a third of accounts less than a decade old had fewer than 10 categories listed on the ad preferences page , whereas only 18 % of accounts over a decade old had fewer than 10 categories listed .
India , with its emerging economy and vast population , is becoming an attractive market for news organizations looking to grow their international audience . The Huffington Post joined a growing number of outlets expanding into the country when it recently announced partnering with The Times of India to launch HuffPost India in November . News companies are betting on speedy growth in the digital market to replicate that of newspapers , given the potential for growth as more in India go online . Internet adoption in India is up — about three-fourths of the population own cell phones , and the country recently surpassed 100 million active Facebook users . Online news consumption is also increasing . India 's unique visitors to online news and information sites grew from 31 million in 2011 to 45 million in 2014 , an increase of 45 % , according to an analysis by comScore . And the government is actively trying to accelerate India 's move toward embracing digital technology .
Americans have low trust in information from social media . Just 5 % of web-using U.S. adults have a lot of trust in the information they get from social media , nearly identical to the 4 % who said so in 2016 . This level of trust is much lower than trust in national and local news organizations , and in information coming from friends and family . In fact , in a separate study focusing on science news about twice as many social media users distrust science posts on social media as trust them ( 52 % compared with 26 % , 21 % of social media users do not see any science posts ) . While social media is a common pathway to news , when people follow news links , source recognition is lower for news accessed through these platforms than it is when the link comes from a news organization . When news links came directly from a news organization 's emails , texts or alerts , the individual could name a source for that link 78 % of the time . That far outpaced source recall when a link came through social media ( 52 % of such instances ) or a friend 's email or text ( 50 % ) .
In some countries included in this survey , we also asked about domestic racial or ethnic divides . This dynamic may be a feature of everyday life for many in countries like Kenya , where ethnic fractionalization is high , but perhaps less salient in places like Vietnam , where the population is more ethnically homogenous . Results of the survey indicate that across the 11 emerging economies , the regularity with which people of different races or ethnicities interact with one another can vary widely .
Views of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad are negative across all of the Middle Eastern and North African nations surveyed . Only 7 % in Israel and 1 % in Jordan view Assad positively . Syrians living in Jordan have similarly negative views of the Syrian president ; only 3 % have a favorable view of Assad .
As noted above , there are some indications that Turkish views of the U.S. , and of American foreign policy , are turning less negative . For instance , in 2007 , 79 % opposed U.S.-led efforts to combat terrorism , compared with 55 % in 2009 . Similarly , fewer Turks now see the U.S. as a potential military threat . Just over half ( 54 % ) say the U.S. could pose a military threat to their country some day — a rather striking finding , since Turkey is a longtime NATO ally of the U.S . However , this is down significantly from 76 % two years ago .
Russians are nostalgic for the era of the Soviet Union . Nearly seven-in-ten Russians ( 69 % ) say the breakup of the Soviet Union was a bad thing for Russia . Just 17 % say it was a good thing . Older Russians , those ages 50 and older , are much more likely to say that the breakup of the USSR was a bad thing ( 85 % ) . Only 44 % of young Russians say the same , though around a quarter ( 27 % ) have no opinion , probably owing to the fact that 18- to 29-year-olds were children or not even born when the Soviet Union collapsed in the early 1990s .
Who comprises the ranks of these health-oriented eaters ? They are more likely to be Baby Boomers than Millennials . Some 56 % of those in the Baby Boomer or older generations say they pick foods because they are healthy and nutritious at least more than half of the time , compared with 43 % of Millennials .
These findings are based on the most recent installment of the weekly News Interest Index , an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The index , building on the Center 's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories , examines news interest as it relates to the news media 's agenda . The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism 's News Coverage Index , which monitors the news reported by major newspaper , television , radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis . In the most recent week , data relating to news coverage were collected from October 6 - 12 and survey data measuring public interest in the top news stories of the week were collected October 10 - 13 from a nationally representative sample of 1,006 adults . Overall , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 63 % ) list either economic conditions or the stock market drop as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . One-in-four ( 24 % ) list the campaign as their most closely followed story . For its part , the national news media divided its focus between the economy and the campaign last week . According to Pew 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , 41 % of the national newshole last week was devoted to the presidential campaign , while 36 % was devoted to the current financial crisis .
For example , a little less than half ( 46 % ) of U.S. adults who attend services at least once a month say sex between unmarried adults in a committed relationship is sometimes or always acceptable , compared with three-quarters ( 74 % ) of those who go less often . And about one-third ( 35 % ) of those who go to religious services at least monthly say casual sex is sometimes or always acceptable , compared with three-quarters ( 75 % ) of those who attend less frequently .
When asked to reflect on specific aspects of their lives , women are inwardly focused , showing more concern about issues that affect them and their families . Men are more concerned with problems outside the home . For example , men in more countries mentioned the actions of the government and work-related difficulties when asked an open-ended question about the most important problem facing their family . Women in more countries volunteer health problems and difficulties with children and education . As might be expected , economic hardships are the most frequently cited concerns by both sexes .
A median of nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) across 44 countries surveyed in spring 2014 responded that they were having a typical day . Only around a quarter ( 27 % ) said their day was going particularly well , and not even one-in-ten ( 7 % ) admitted their day was going poorly .
Americans and Germans diverge on who is the world 's leading economic power . Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) name the U.S. as the world 's economic leader , while only 19 % of Germans say the same . Over half of Germans ( 53 % ) say China is the leading economy . A further 21 % of Germans say the countries of the European Union are the world 's top economic power , while only 7 % of Americans say this .
The Center 's 2019 survey asked Americans about doctors as a group , rather than the individual doctors who patients may have gone to see . But another Pew Research Center survey conducted in the spring of 2016 asked Americans about more direct experiences with their health care providers . It , too , revealed mostly positive opinions . In that survey , 63 % of U.S. adults said they had seen a health care provider for an illness or medical condition within the past year . Among those , eight-in-ten or more said their symptoms or concerns were carefully listened to ( 87 % ) , their doctor really cared about their health and well-being ( 84 % ) , and they got all the information they needed about their treatment or at-home care ( 80 % ) . Only around a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) said they felt rushed by their health care provider , and even fewer ( 15 % ) said they were confused about the instructions they got for their treatment or other home care .
As economic and security concerns have become less prominent , the domestic issues of reducing health care costs ( 69 % top priority ) and improving the educational system ( 68 % ) now rank among the top tier of public priorities . About two-thirds also say that taking steps to make the Social Security ( 67 % ) and Medicare ( 67 % ) systems financially sound are top priorities for the country .
Americans continue to see many international issues – including terrorism , the spread of nuclear weapons and cyberattacks – as major threats to the well-being of the nation . But as the COVID-19 pandemic sweeps the globe , the greatest threat named by Americans in a March 3 - 29 Pew Research Center survey is the spread of infectious diseases .
When it comes to whether it 's acceptable for a black person to use the N-word , about four-in-ten adults ( 38 % ) say they personally find it never acceptable . This includes similar shares of whites and blacks .
Most noteworthy , people with no religious affiliation are the only group with a majority ( 56 % ) saying that ventilators should be saved for those with the highest chance of recovery in the event that there are not enough resources to go around , even if that means some patients do n't receive the same aggressive treatment because they are older , sicker and less likely to survive . This view aligns with medical guidelines that typically call for a utilitarian approach — one that prioritizes good outcomes for the greatest number of people .
In the U.S. , both Republicans and Democrats name the UK as their most trusted partner , although Democrats are more likely to say this . Republicans are also more likely to name Israel as the preeminent partner than are Democrats . But equal shares from both parties see Germany as a top partner , and the same can be said of China .
For a large majority of Americans , the country 's openness to people from around the world `` is essential to who we are as a nation . '' In a new Pew Research Center survey , 68 % say America 's openness to foreigners is a defining characteristic of the nation , while just 26 % say `` if America is too open to people from all over the world , we risk losing our identity as a nation . '' The belief that openness to people from around the world is essential is widely shared across most demographic groups . However , Democrats and younger people are considerably more likely than others to hold this view , according to the national survey , conducted Sept. 18 - 24 among 1,754 adults . Among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , an overwhelming share ( 85 % ) thinks America 's openness is essential to who we are as a nation . Republicans and Republican leaners are divided : 47 % say America 's openness is essential , while 44 % say being too open carries with it the risk of losing our identity as a nation . These views are virtually unchanged from the last time the Center asked this question in summer 2017 .
A median of 72 % across the 34 countries surveyed say a marriage where both the husband and wife have jobs and take care of the house and children is a more satisfying way of life than one where the husband provides for the family and the wife takes care of the house and children . The shares saying that a more egalitarian marriage is better are lowest in Lithuania , Tunisia and Indonesia .
Majorities across nearly all major demographic groups say it makes the country stronger to acknowledge its historical flaws . Nearly two-thirds of White voters ( 68 % ) say acknowledging the United States ' historical flaws makes the country stronger . Larger majorities of Black ( 83 % ) and Hispanic ( 74 % ) voters say the same .
And nearly half ( 47 % ) of teen girls say they usually wait for someone to ask them out first , compared with only 6 % of boys . Girls are also much less inclined than boys to ask someone out , whether in person ( 35 % girls vs. 69 % boys ) or via text message ( 20 % vs. 27 % ) .
On the international stage , majorities of Americans and Germans align on their mutual desire for more cooperation with the United Kingdom , France and China . On Russia , however , differences emerge . Roughly one-third of Americans ( 35 % ) want more cooperation with Russia , while nearly twice as many Germans ( 69 % ) want the same . There are also stark contrasts between the U.S. and Germany on collaboration with each other : 70 % of Americans say they want more cooperation with Germany , but only 41 % of Germans share this sentiment toward the U.S. Rather , 47 % of Germans want less cooperation with the U.S .
Japanese feel better about their economy than at any time in nearly two decades . But the overall mood in Japan remains wary , if not pessimistic . The prevailing view is that average people are worse off than before the Great Recession , while few think the next generation will fare any better . Automation is one reason the future may not be so bright for ordinary people : Majorities of Japanese say growing reliance on robots and computers will lead to joblessness and income inequality . And less than half the public is satisfied with the way democracy is working in Japan , while more than half hold the view that politicians do not care about ordinary people , that they are corrupt and that elections ultimately do not change much . Positive views of the economy are up 34 percentage points since the early days of the global financial crisis in 2009 . Nonetheless , in 2018 just 44 % say the current economic situation in Japan is good , while 55 % believe conditions are bad . Four-in-ten Japanese ( 41 % ) think average people today are worse off financially than they were 20 years ago . Just 26 % say they are better off . At the same time , only 15 % of the public believes that children today in Japan will grow up to be better off financially than their parents , while 76 % expect they will be worse off . That is among the lowest level of optimism about the next generation 's prospects among the 27 nations Pew Research Center surveyed in 2018 .
The makeup of the Hispanic population varies widely across major metropolitan areas . Mexicans comprise more than two-in-three Hispanics in the Los Angeles and Houston metro areas , reflecting their majority share among the national Hispanic population . But in many other metro areas , other origin groups make up the largest share among Hispanics . Puerto Ricans are the largest group in the Orlando , Florida , metro area , while Salvadorans are the largest in the Washington , D.C. , metro area . Cubans are the largest origin group in the Miami metro area .
As mentioned previously , ratings for al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden have generally declined in recent years , and he receives little support among most Muslim publics . However , about half ( 51 % ) of Palestinians express confidence in him and in Nigeria , 54 % -majority of the country 's Muslim population say they are confident in bin Laden 's leadership . In Pakistan , where many believe bin Laden is now hiding , only 18 % express confidence in him , although 35 % do not offer an opinion . Very few Turks ( 3 % ) or Lebanese ( 2 % ) express support for the terrorist leader .
Americans believe automation will likely disrupt a number of professions , but fewer foresee their own jobs being at risk . In a survey conducted in May , a majority of U.S. adults said it is at least somewhat likely that jobs such as fast food worker ( 77 % ) and insurance claims processor ( 65 % ) will be mostly performed by machines in their lifetime , while around half expected the same to be true of jobs such as software engineer and legal clerk . On the other hand , only three-in-ten workers said it 's at least somewhat likely that their own jobs will be mostly done by robots or computers during their lifetimes , including just 7 % who said this is very likely .
Yet Americans also have long expressed positive views of the federal government 's performance in several specific areas . And majorities want the government to play a major role on everything from keeping the country safe from terrorism to ensuring access to health care and alleviating poverty . Among the public overall , majorities say the government does a very good or somewhat good job keeping the country safe from terrorism ( 72 % ) , responding to natural disasters ( 62 % ) , ensuring safe food and medicine ( 62 % ) , strengthening the economy ( 54 % ) and maintaining infrastructure ( 53 % ) . Americans are far more critical of how the government handles several other issues , including managing the immigration system ( just 34 % say it does a good job ) , helping people get out of poverty ( 36 % ) and effectively handling threats to public health ( 42 % ) .
Blacks are also divided about the impact racial discrimination has on black progress today , but the age groups align slightly differently on this measure . Survey respondents in the pre-Ferguson Pew Research poll were asked which of the following statements came closer to their own views : Racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people ca n't get ahead these days , or blacks who ca n't get ahead in this country are mostly responsible for their own condition . Overall , blacks split fairly evenly on this question , with 43 % choosing the first statement and 48 % choosing the second one .
But Republicans are less supportive of the president on some other issues , in particular the environment , energy policy and immigration . Just 38 % of moderate and liberal Republicans approve of the job Bush is doing on energy policy ­ his lowest rating from this segment of the party . For conservative Republicans , there are questions about Bush 's immigration policy ­ just 51 % of conservative Republicans approve of how the president is handling immigration .
Large shares of Spaniards are also skeptical about the future of the labor market and political system . Only about a quarter ( 24 % ) of Spaniards say they are hopeful that well-paying jobs will be available in the future , while 76 % are doubtful . Similarly , a small share is confident in the future of the Spanish political system .
There is a wide gap between those who prioritize gun rights and gun control when it comes to political involvement . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) of those who say gun rights should be the priority have contributed money to an organization that takes a position on gun policy , compared with just 5 % of those who prioritize gun control . People who favor gun rights are also about twice as likely as gun control supporters to have contacted a public official about gun policy ( 15 % vs. 8 % ) . By contrast , comparable percentages of gun rights supporters ( 19 % ) and those who prioritize gun control ( 15 % ) say they have expressed their opinion about gun policy on social networks . And about one-in-ten in each group says they have signed a petition on gun policy ( 12 % of gun rights supporters , 10 % of gun control supporters ) .
Among Americans , 36 % choose the United Kingdom as the most or second-most important foreign policy partner . Roughly two-in-ten say China ( 23 % ) and Canada ( 20 % ) are top partners , but Germany is chosen by only 13 % as the most or second-most important partner , in between Israel at 15 % and Mexico at 12 % .
Americans widely support the `` right to be forgotten , '' allowing people to remove personal information about themselves from public online searches or databases . When the Center asked Americans in June 2019 about medical data specifically , about seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 69 % ) said all Americans should have the right to have medical data collected by a health provider permanently deleted by the people or organizations who have that information . White adults , older Americans and those with higher levels of educational attainment and household incomes were more likely to say all Americans should have the right to have this information permanently deleted . For example , 77 % of those with a college education or more said this should be a right for all Americans , compared with smaller shares of those with some college education ( 70 % ) or a high school diploma or less ( 61 % ) .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
One exception is human genetic modification , where religious observance is tied to public opinion . For example , 61 % of U.S. adults who attend worship services at least weekly , regardless of their particular religious tradition , say genetic modification to reduce a baby 's risk of serious diseases would be `` taking medical advances too far . '' By comparison , among adults who seldom or never attend worship services , 41 % say genetic modification for this purpose would be taking advances too far .
Sub-Saharan African nations account for eight of the 10 fastest growing international migrant populations since 2010 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the latest United Nations data on the number of emigrants , or people living outside their country of birth . The number of emigrants from each of these sub-Saharan countries grew by 50 % or more between 2010 and 2017 , significantly more than the 17 % worldwide average increase for the same period . At the country level , only Syria had a higher rate of growth in its number of people living in other countries .
Public opinion about whether the U.S. has a responsibility to accept Syrian refugees has not changed since February , though the share saying the U.S. has a responsibility to accept Syrian refugees is higher today ( 47 % ) than it was last October ( 40 % ) . The partisan divisions on this issue remain stark .
These are among the findings of the weekly News Coverage Index , a comprehensive analysis of the press coverage the week of Nov. 3 - 9 from the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
In Brazil – home to the world 's largest Catholic population and most of the Amazon rainforest – a majority of Catholics ( 56 % ) were in favor of allowing priests to marry . In other countries represented at the Amazon synod , support ranged from 53 % in Venezuela and 48 % in Colombia to 29 % in Ecuador and 28 % in Peru .
Mitt Romney 's statement that he is focused solely on the problems of middle class Americans , not the poor , may not sit well with lower-income voters within his own party . Roughly a quarter of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters have annual family incomes under $ 30,000 , and most of them say that the government does not do enough for poor people in this country .
American , French , Italian and Japanese views are out of step with those of their TPP and TTIP counterparts on a number of trade and investment issues . Americans and Japanese are far less likely than publics in other TPP countries ( a median of 55 % ) to hold the view that growing international business ties will create new employment , a politically sensitive issue in each country . And French ( 24 % ) , Americans ( 20 % ) and Italians ( 13 % ) are less likely than their TTIP negotiating partners ( a median of 50 % ) to agree that trade leads to more jobs . Americans , French , Italians and Japanese are also more skeptical than others in the two sets of trade talks about the impact of trade on wages and the value of foreigners buying local companies .
Americans are divided over the executive action President Obama announced last November expanding the number of undocumented immigrants permitted to work and stay in the U.S. About as many disapprove ( 50 % ) as approve ( 46 % ) of Obama 's action , which could make up to 4 million people newly eligible for deportation relief , according to a survey last December . About eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) disapprove of the executive action and about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) approve of it , with very strong attitudes on both sides . Hispanics overwhelmingly support the deportation-relief action : 81 % approve , including 59 % who very strongly approve . But non-Hispanic whites disapprove of it by nearly two-to-one ( 62 % vs. 34 % ) , with nearly half ( 49 % ) disapproving very strongly .
Generally , those who say they are worn out are more likely to say there is too much coverage of every topic compared with those who like seeing a lot of coverage of the election . On one topic a notable party difference emerges in whether there is too much or too little coverage : experience . Roughly half ( 53 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say that there has been too little coverage of the candidates ' experience , compared with only about a third ( 36 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaners . No other topic differed by more than 6 % in whether each is covered too much or too little .
For multimedia – downloading music and streaming ( defined as listening to or watching audio/video clips ) – there are substantial gaps between broadband users and the two categories of dial-up users . Although experienced dial-up users who want broadband are twice as likely other dial-up users to stream , broadband users are still far and away most likely to stream on a typical day . And broadband users are easily the most active group when it comes to downloading music on the average day .
Today , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) say the Bible should have at least `` some '' influence on U.S. laws , including nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) who say it should have `` a great deal '' of influence , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Among U.S. Christians , two-thirds ( 68 % ) want the Bible to influence U.S. laws at least some , and among white evangelical Protestants , this figure rises to about nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) . At the other end of the spectrum , there 's broad opposition to biblical influence on U.S. laws among religiously unaffiliated Americans , also known as religious `` nones , '' who identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular . '' Roughly three-quarters in this group ( 78 % ) say the Bible should hold little to no sway , including 86 % of self-described atheists who say the Bible should not influence U.S. legislation at all . Two-thirds of U.S. Jews , as well , think the Bible should have not much or should have no influence on laws .
Aside from the 2008 presidential campaign , the public focused its attention on disaster news – both at home and abroad – while the media devoted most of its coverage elsewhere . One-in-five named the earthquake in China as the story they followed more closely than any other last week , on par with the interest levels when the earthquake struck in mid-May . The national news media devoted 3 % of its coverage to the story . News about violent storms and tornadoes in the Midwest also captured the public 's attention last week with 18 % of Americans calling the storms their top story . Unsurprisingly , those in the middle of the country ( 41 % ) were much more likely than those living elsewhere to have followed the story very closely . Just 2 % of the national newshole was devoted to the storms .
YouTube has emerged as a key platform for both younger and older kids . Fully 89 % of parents of a child age 5 to 11 say their child watches videos on YouTube , as do 81 % of those who have a child age 3 to 4 and 57 % of those who have child age 2 or younger . And while majorities of parents whose child uses YouTube credit the platform for entertaining and educating their children , a majority of these parents are concerned about their child being exposed to inappropriate content on the video sharing site .
Unlike in 2014 , when 2.1 million more votes were cast in Republican than in Democratic House primaries , this year Democratic races drew more votes : 20.4 million versus 16.3 million . That was nearly twice as many votes as the 10.7 million cast in 2014 's Democratic House primaries . One reason : There have been a lot more contested primaries on the Democratic side this year , and contested races tend to attract more voters .
People in most surveyed nations embrace cooperation with other countries when dealing with major international issues . A median of 58 % say their country should take other countries ' interests into account when dealing with major international issues , even if it means making compromises . Majorities hold this view in 10 of 14 countries polled . Views are more divided in Italy and Denmark . And in Australia and Japan , half of adults or more say their nation should follow its own interests , even when other countries strongly disagree .
Education levels of unauthorized immigrants remain well below those of the U.S. born and of lawful immigrants , however . Among the U.S. born , 8 % of adults ages 25 to 64 do not have a high school diploma and 33 % hold a college degree . Among lawful immigrants , the shares are 21 % and 37 % .
When asked which president has done the best job in their lifetimes , more Americans name Barack Obama than any other president . More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say Obama is the best or second best president of their lifetimes , compared with about a third who mention Bill Clinton ( 33 % ) or Ronald Reagan ( 32 % ) .
About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) Americans say that Russia or other foreign governments definitely ( 9 % ) or probably ( 30 % ) influenced the congressional elections , while six-in-ten say foreign governments probably ( 44 % ) or definitely ( 16 % ) did not influence the elections . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say they think there was foreign influence in the congressional elections : 53 % say this , compared with 21 % of Republicans . This is similar to the partisan divide in expectations before the election , when 80 % of Democrats and 53 % of Republicans said it was at least somewhat likely that there would be foreign attempts to influence the election .
Overall , the share of voters who say it is important for Americans to know who won the election within a day or two of Election Day ( 82 % ) is substantially larger than the share who say they are confident this will happen ( 50 % ) . These gaps are present among both Trump supporters and Biden supporters , though they are wider among Trump supporters . Nearly all Trump supporters ( 94 % ) say it is at least somewhat important to learn the results of the election quickly , while about three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Biden voters say the same . Only about half ( 48 % ) of Trump and Biden supporters ( 50 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident this will happen .
This recovery is also dogging it on putting people back to work . Since June 2009 , the number of nonfarm payroll jobs in the U.S. has grown by just 5.7 % — lower job growth than all but one of the prior lengthy expansions . In the first five years of the 1960s recovery , for instance , payrolls grew 17.3 % . They grew 16.4 % during the first five years of the 1980s `` Reagan recovery , '' and 9.6 % during the first five years of the tech-fueled boom of the 1990s .
Moreover , there is a strong desire for specific democratic rights and institutions . About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) considered it very important to live in a country with a judicial system that treats everyone in the same way , while roughly six-in-ten said it is very important to have a free press ( 62 % ) ; free speech ( 60 % ) ; and honest , competitive elections with at least two political parties ( 58 % ) .
Many of the refugees in question are from Muslim-majority countries such as Afghanistan , Iran and Iraq . Australians are divided as to whether Muslims in their country want to adopt Australian customs and way of life : 46 % say no , while 42 % say yes . Americans are evenly split on whether Muslims in the U.S. wish to assimilate , while Europeans are skeptical that Muslims will adopt the customs and traditions of the European countries they now call home .
Overall , 42 % agree with the Democratic Party 's policies on abortion either strongly ( 28 % ) or somewhat ( 15 % ) . A smaller share ( 32 % ) says they strongly ( 21 % ) or somewhat ( 11 % ) agree with the policies of the GOP . About a quarter ( 24 % ) says they do n't agree with either party on this issue .
A majority ( 56 % ) of Republican registered voters say that disagreements within the GOP will keep many from supporting Trump as the party 's nominee , while just 38 % say the party will solidly unite behind him , according to a new Pew Research Center report . This is the most skeptical either party 's electorate has been of their party 's ability to unite behind a frontrunner in at least 20 years .
About four-in-ten Americans rate the ethical standards of Trump administration officials as excellent ( 9 % ) or good ( 30 % ) , while 58 % say they are not good ( 21 % ) or poor ( 36 % ) . Current ratings for the Trump administration 's ethical standards are lower than for those at various points in other administrations dating back to when the question was first asked by ABC News and The Washington Post of Ronald Reagan 's administration in 1983 .
In 2010 , the incarceration rate for white men under local , state and federal jurisdiction was 678 inmates per 100,000 white U.S. residents ; for black men , it was 4,347 . According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics , black men were more than six times as likely as white men to be incarcerated in 2010 .
Black Americans tend to be underrepresented in U.S. newsrooms . While 7 % of newsroom employees are black , 11 % of U.S. workers overall are black , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of 2013 - 2017 American Community Survey data . There is slightly more proportional representation in local TV newsrooms , with the Radio Television Digital News Association finding in 2018 that 12 % of those workers are African American . However , only 6 % of news directors – who constitute the leadership of such newsrooms – are black , up from 2 % in 1995 .
These findings , which come from an April 2009 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project , illustrate the pervasiveness of online video and mark an important moment in the evolution of America 's television and movie viewing habits . The use of video sharing sites currently outranks many other headline-snatching internet pastimes among American adults . Watching online videos on sites like YouTube is more prevalent than the use of social networking sites ( 46 % of adult internet users are active on such sites ) , podcast downloading ( 19 % of internet users do this ) and the use of status updating sites like Twitter ( 11 % of internet users do this ) .
Americans have varying views about the safety of online dating . Roughly half of Americans overall ( 53 % ) say dating sites and apps are a very or somewhat safe way to meet people , while 46 % believe they are not too or not at all safe . Public perceptions about the safety of online dating vary substantially by personal experience . A majority of Americans who have ever used a dating site or app ( 71 % ) see online dating as a very or somewhat safe way to meet someone , compared with 47 % of those who have never used these platforms . Among the public as a whole , women are far more likely than men to say dating sites and apps are not a safe way to meet people ( 53 % vs. 39 % ) . Views on this question also vary substantially by age , educational attainment and race and ethnicity .
Just as there are partisan differences in views of whether Iran poses a major threat to the United States , Republicans and Democrats prioritize different approaches to the dispute over Iran 's nuclear program . Overall , the public is divided about whether it is more important to take a firm stand against Iranian actions ( 44 % ) or to avoid a military conflict with Iran ( 49 % ) . But while 68 % of Republicans say it is more important to take a firm stand against Iranian actions , the balance of opinion is flipped among Democrats . Roughly seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) say it is more important to avoid a military conflict with Iran . Just a quarter of Republicans ( 25 % ) say it is more important to avoid a conflict , while a similar share of Democrats ( 23 % ) say they would prefer that the U.S. take a firm stand against Iranian actions .
On the one hand , the percentage of Latinos in the U.S. who are Catholic is declining , according to a major new Pew Research Center report . A majority ( 55 % ) of the nation 's estimated 35.4 million Latino adults – or about 19.6 million Latinos – identify as Catholic , but that 's down from two-thirds ( 67 % ) as recently as 2010 . Today , nearly one-in-four Latino adults ( 24 % ) are now former Catholics . ( We also asked about the reasons Latinos are leaving Catholicism . )
A number of measures in these surveys show Muslims feeling more embittered toward the West and its people than vice versa . They attribute more negative qualities to Western people than Westerners do to Muslims . They also rate Christians and Jews less favorably than Europeans and Americans rate Muslims . One of the startling findings of the survey is that most Muslims remain unconvinced that Arabs carried out the September 11th attacks . In Indonesia , 65 % , in Jordan 53 % , and in Turkey 59 % deny that the attacks were carried out by Arab men .
When asked to reflect on their teen 's cellphone use , a majority of parents ( 72 % ) feel their teen is at least sometimes distracted by their cellphone when they are trying to have a conversation with them . Indeed , 30 % of parents say their teen often does this . At the same time , this sense of distraction caused by cellphones is not an entirely teen-specific phenomenon . When asked this question about their parent 's behavior , half of teens say their parent is distracted by their own phone at least sometimes during conversations between them ( 51 % ) , with 14 % of teens reporting that their parent is often distracted in this way .
More broadly , the public places technology companies somewhere in the middle of the pack in terms of their overall power in the economy relative to other industries and commercial entities . Asked about the relative clout of eight different groups or entities , just over half the public ( 55 % ) says technology companies have too much power and influence , similar to the share ( 57 % ) that thinks the energy industry has an outsize influence on the economy today . Larger shares of the public feel that pharmaceutical companies , advertisers , or banks and other financial institutions have too much power and influence today , while smaller shares think this is true of labor unions , small businesses or the farming and agriculture industry .
Majorities in all Western European countries surveyed in 2008 except Spain said they were very or fairly concerned that their country had become too dependent on Russia for its energy resources : Roughly six-in-ten or more among British ( 67 % ) , German ( 62 % ) and French ( 58 % ) publics expressed concern ; the Spanish public was evenly split on this issue ( 46 % concerned , 47 % not concerned ) . Concern grew a bit between 2007 and 2008 in several Western European publics ; slightly more were worried in 2008 in Germany ( 62 % ) , France ( 58 % ) , and Spain ( 46 % ) than in 2007 ( Germany 58 % , France 53 % , Spain 38 % ) . British views have remained unchanged .
Outside Lebanon , concern that extremists will take control of Syria is greatest in Israel ( 82 % ) and Jordan ( 76 % ) . The Turkish public again is somewhat less worried than its neighbors about events in Syria : only about half ( 49 % ) worry that extremists will emerge victorious from the battle with Bashar al-Assad 's government .
Black Americans are far less likely than whites to give police high marks for the way they do their jobs . In a 2016 survey , only about a third of black adults said that police in their community did an `` excellent '' or `` good '' job in using the right amount of force ( 33 % , compared with 75 % of whites ) , treating racial and ethnic groups equally ( 35 % vs. 75 % ) , and holding officers accountable for misconduct ( 31 % vs. 70 % ) .
In this analysis , newsroom employees include reporters , editors , photographers and videographers ages 18 and older working full time in the newspaper , broadcasting and internet publishing industries . For a full definition of `` newsroom employees , '' see the methodology .
The United States was the largest contributor to the WHO in the 2018 - 2019 biennium , giving just over $ 893 million , or about 20 % of its approved budget that cycle . The second largest donor was the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , which contributed roughly 12 % . Other top donors include Gavi , the Vaccine Alliance ; the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ( UNOCHA ) ; Rotary International ; the World Bank ; the European Commission ; and other WHO member states including the UK , Germany and Japan .
Around eight-in-ten U.S. adults say government investments in medical research ( 80 % ) , engineering and technology ( 80 % ) or basic scientific research ( 77 % ) usually pay off in the long run . Only about two-in-ten believe government funding in each of these areas is not worth it ( 19 % for medical research , 19 % for engineering and technology and 22 % for basic scientific research ) .
But there is less criticism of Cruz and Kasich among the other 's supporters than there is of Trump . Only 25 % of Kasich supporters say Cruz would be a poor or terrible president , while just 17 % of Cruz supporters say this about Kasich .
The rising price of gasoline replaced the Iraq war last week as the public 's most closely followed news story . More than half of the public ( 52 % ) paid very close attention to news about gas prices , and 27 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . By comparison , 33 % followed the situation in Iraq very closely , and 23 % listed Iraq as their top news story of the week . Historically , rising gas prices have attracted broad public interest . A year ago , even more Americans ( 69 % ) followed news about gas prices very closely . This past week , interest in gas prices outstripped media coverage of the issue by a wide margin . The national news media devoted 4 % of its coverage to gasoline prices , making it the sixth most heavily covered news story of the week .
Social media users ages 18 to 49 are far more likely than those ages 50 and older to report using social media to check up on an ex-romantic partner . Seven-in-ten 18- to 29-year-olds report that they have used these platforms to check up on someone they used to date or be in a relationship with . That share is lower – though still a majority – among users ages 30 to 49 and falls sharply among those ages and 50 and older . Overall , about three-in-ten partnered adults who use social media say that these sites are at least somewhat important in showing how much they care about their partner ( 33 % ) or keeping up with what is going on in their partner 's life ( 28 % ) . But the level of importance that these users place on social media varies substantially by age . Among partnered social media users , 48 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say these platforms are very or somewhat important in how they show how much they care about their partner , compared with 28 % of those ages 30 and older who say this .
Voters are concerned that lawmakers will not strike the right balance in overseeing the Trump administration – no matter which party prevails . A majority of voters ( 64 % ) say if Republicans keep control of Congress , they are very or somewhat concerned that the GOP will not focus enough on oversight of the administration . A smaller majority ( 55 % ) are concerned that if the Democrats take control of Congress , they will focus too much on investigating the Trump administration . These opinions remain deeply divided along partisan lines .
Across active Twitter users in these five countries , some 90 % of legislators have used a hashtag in at least one tweet . And the most-used hashtags are typically linked to domestic political discussions , elections and policies rather than cross-national issues or movements . The most-used hashtag in Australia , # auspol , is a generic catchall for anything related to Australian politics being discussed on Twitter . Similar tags appear in the top 10 hashtag lists in Canada ( # cdnpoli , # polcan ) and New Zealand ( # nzpol ) . Top hashtags in the UK center around Brexit ( # brexit , # peoplesvote ) and some notable events , such as Holocaust Memorial Day and the European Union elections . The annual State of the Union speech ( # sotu ) was a widely popular hashtag among U.S. legislators , with 85 % of tweeters mentioning it at least once . American legislators also used hashtags to bring attention to the For the People Act of 2019 ( also known as H.R . 1 ) , which proposes expanding voting rights and campaign finance reform , and theEquality Act , which amends the Civil Rights Act to incorporate and expand protections towards minority groups . U.S.-specific occasions that occur in the first half of the calendar year also top the list , including hashtags related to Memorial Day ( May ) , Martin Luther King Jr. Day ( January ) and Black History Month ( February ) . Some themes , however , appear as top hashtag topics across multiple countries . Hashtags related to the March 8 celebration of International Women 's Day ( such as # iwd2019 and # internationalwomensday ) were universally popular across all five countries . The 75th anniversary of D-Day ( # dday75 ) appeared in the top hashtags list of the three nations that sent troops to Normandy to fight on that day in June 1944 – Canada , the U.S. and the UK . Climate and environmental activism also make the top counts in New Zealand ( # climatechange ) , the UK ( # climatechange ) and the U.S. ( # earthday ) .
The new study highlights the challenges that both parties face heading into the 2014 and 2016 elections . Each can count on strong support from the three staunchly partisan groups ; Steadfast Conservatives and Business Conservatives on the right , and Solid Liberals on the left . In all three groups , 2014 midterm preferences are comparable to the overwhelming support these groups gave their party 's presidential candidate in 2012 .
Eight years after the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon , the Pew Global Attitudes Project finds that support for Osama bin Laden has declined considerably among Muslim publics in recent years . Moreover , majorities or pluralities among eight of the nine Muslim publics surveyed this year say that suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians can never be justified to defend Islam ; only in the Palestinian territories does a majority endorse such attacks .
Moreover , more than a third of all Hispanics ( 36 % ) say they are satisfied with the current overall direction of the country , up from 25 % who said the same in 2008 ( Lopez and Minushkin , 2008 ) . On this question , Hispanics are more upbeat than all Americans . Only about a quarter ( 25 % ) of the general public said in late summer they were satisfied with the way things in the country were going ( Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , 2010b ) .
While New York is no longer the home to the largest number of immigrants , its immigrant population is more diverse than those of California or Texas . Large shares of California 's and Texas ' immigrant populations are from Mexico and South and East Asia . By contrast , about a quarter of immigrants in New York are from the Caribbean ( 24 % ) and another 24 % are from South and East Asia . Another 19 % are from Europe or Canada and Central and South America , each . Only 6 % of immigrants in New York are from Mexico .
Younger adults are more likely to report feeling emotional distress as the pandemic unfolds . A March survey asked people if they had experienced five different types of psychological distress in the past seven days , including anxiety , sleeplessness , depression and loneliness . Adults 18 to 29 were more than twice as likely to fall into the `` high distress '' category than those 65 and older ( 33 % vs. 15 % ) . A repeat of that question in late April showed a similar pattern . The other categories were `` medium distress '' and `` low distress . ''
Many Americans believe fabricated news is sowing confusion , and about a third ( 32 % ) say they often see made-up political news online . Nearly two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 64 % ) say fabricated news stories cause a great deal of confusion about the basic facts of current issues and events . About a third of U.S. adults ( 32 % ) say they often see made-up political news online , while 39 % sometimes see such stories and 26 % hardly ever or never do . About half ( 51 % ) say they often see political news online that is at least somewhat inaccurate – a higher proportion than those who say they see news that is almost completely made up ( 32 % ) . About a quarter ( 23 % ) say they have ever shared made-up news stories themselves , with roughly equal shares saying they have done so either knowingly or unknowingly . A large majority ( 84 % ) of Americans say they are at least somewhat confident in their ability to recognize fabricated news . Americans have low trust in information from social media . Just 5 % of web-using U.S. adults have a lot of trust in the information they get from social media , nearly identical to the 4 % who said so in 2016 . This level of trust is much lower than trust in national and local news organizations , and in information coming from friends and family . In fact , in a separate study focusing on science news about twice as many social media users distrust science posts on social media as trust them ( 52 % compared with 26 % , 21 % of social media users do not see any science posts ) .
The share of women concurrently serving in Cabinet-level positions peaked during President Bill Clinton 's second term , at 40.9 % . During President Trump 's administration so far , the maximum share of women serving at one time has been 26.1 % . Now , following Nikki Haley 's resignation as UN ambassador , the share stands at 21.7 % . The first woman in a Cabinet-level position was Frances Perkins , appointed as secretary of labor by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1933 . To date , seven women have served as labor secretary , more than in any other Cabinet or Cabinet-level position . Gina Haspel , appointed by President Donald Trump in 2018 , is the first female director of the Central Intelligence Agency , a Cabinet-level position .
Americans express a consistent lack of confidence about the security of everyday communication channels and the organizations that control them – particularly when it comes to the use of online tools . And they exhibited a deep lack of faith in organizations of all kinds , public or private , in protecting the personal information they collect . Only tiny minorities say they are `` very confident '' that the records maintained by these organizations will remain private and secure .
Solid majorities say news organizations have given too much coverage to the Weiner photo scandal ( 63 % ) and to Sarah Palin 's bus tour of historic sites ( 58 % ) . By contrast , just 11 % say news about U.S. plans and policies for Afghanistan have been over-covered ; 42 % say this story has gotten too little media attention .
When thinking specifically about women seeking high political office , men are somewhat more likely than women to say having children early gives women a better chance of succeeding – 56 % vs. 47 % . Still , 24 % of men and 29 % of women say a woman should wait until she 's well established , politically , before having children . Smaller shares of both groups say women are most successful in politics if they do n't have children .
More than a quarter ( 28 % ) of smartphone owners say they do not use a screen lock or other security features to access their phone . And while a majority of smartphone users say they have updated their phone 's apps or operating system , about 40 % say they only update when it 's convenient for them . Meanwhile , some users forgo updating their phones altogether : Around one-in-ten smartphone owners report they never update their phone 's operating system ( 14 % ) or update the apps on their phone ( 10 % ) . The story around mobile security is not all negative . Very few smartphone owners ( 3 % ) say they never update their phone 's apps or operating system or use a screen lock to access their phone . And some users are especially diligent when it comes to mobile security , taking the steps most recommended by cybersecurity experts . Around one-in-five smartphone owners ( 22 % ) , for example , say they use a screen lock for their phone , update their apps either automatically or as soon as an update is available , and immediately update their device 's operating system when a new version is offered .
The majority of Tunisians believe that Islam should play at least some role in their government . More than half ( 53 % ) say that laws should follow the values and principles of Islam , but not strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . Three-in-ten believe that laws should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran , while 15 % believe laws in Tunisia should not be influenced at all by the Quran , which is relatively unchanged over the last year .
Perceptions of both natural gas and nuclear power fall in between . Three-in-ten Americans see natural gas ( 30 % ) as very effective at minimizing air pollution , 42 % say natural gas is somewhat effective in minimizing air pollution , and 23 % say natural gas is not at all or not too effective . Views of nuclear power are mixed , with 28 % saying the use of nuclear energy is very effective , 27 % saying it is somewhat effective and 35 % saying it is not too or not at all effective in minimizing air pollution .
Roughly eight-in-ten whites ( 82 % ) report owning a desktop or laptop computer , compared with 58 % of blacks and 57 % of Hispanics . There are also substantial racial and ethnic differences in broadband adoption , with whites being more likely than either blacks or Hispanics to report having a broadband connection at home . ( There were not enough Asian respondents in the sample to be broken out into a separate analysis . )
And most believe that increasing automation will have negative consequences for jobs . Large majorities think automation will make it difficult for ordinary people to find a job and will deepen economic inequality . Relatively few predict the economy will become more efficient or that new , better-paying jobs will be created by technological advances .
There are not major differences between partisans on this issue . At the same time , there are differences in these attitudes by race and ethnicity . The vast majority of White adults ( 82 % ) find social media companies using data about their users ' online activities to target them with ads from political campaigns to be not very or not at all acceptable , compared with smaller shares – though still majorities – of Black , Hispanic and Asian Americans .
Yet the coronavirus outbreak continues to cast a large shadow over the 2020 presidential election . Just half of U.S. registered voters ( 50 % ) say it will be very or somewhat easy to vote in the upcoming elections , while about the same share ( 49 % ) expects to have difficulties casting a ballot . That is a substantial change since October 2018 , shortly before that year 's midterm elections , when 85 % of registered voters said it would be easy to vote .
U.S. deportations of immigrants reached a record high in 2013 . The Obama administration deported a record 438,421 unauthorized immigrants in fiscal year 2013 , continuing a streak of stepped up enforcement that has resulted in more than 2 million deportations since Obama took office , according to Department of Homeland Security data . Up to that point , the current administration deported about as many immigrants in five years as the George W. Bush administration deported in eight years . A survey conducted in February found the public evenly divided over whether the increase in deportations was a good or a bad thing .
The United States , long a champion of closer commercial links among countries , is seeing much of the world not only sharing its enthusiasm but exceeding it . In fact , of the 24 nations surveyed in 2008 , Americans were dead last in calling the growing multi-national trade and business ties either `` very good '' or `` somewhat good . '' A 53 % majority of Americans gave thumbs up to international commerce , but that support paled in comparison with the 91 % of Nigerians and 90 % of Indians at the top of the list . In general , the Asian nations that have been running huge trade surpluses thought international commerce was just fine . Majorities of 88 % in South Korea and 87 % in China approved of growing trade and business ties across borders .
While the bridge collapse dominated public interest last week , attentiveness to the situation in Iraq remained at about the same level as it has during the summer , with 29 % following war news very closely . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) paid very close attention to the Iraq policy debate while a similar number ( 19 % ) followed the 2008 presidential campaign very closely .
Meanwhile , the share of all Hispanic adults who access the internet through a home broadband connection is little changed since 2010 . Then , 45 % said they accessed the internet through a broadband home connection . Today that share is 46 % . Among blacks too there was little change in the share of adults who have broadband access at home – 50 % in 2010 and 55 % in 2015 . Over the same period , that share among whites grew from 64 % to 73 % .
The public is unlikely to be satisfied with the Supreme Court 's upcoming ruling on the 2010 Affordable Care Act – no matter what the Court decides . Whether the Court decides to uphold the entire law , overturn the entire law , or reject the `` individual mandate '' while allowing the rest of the law to remain in place , fewer than half of Americans say they would be happy with the decision .
In the earlier survey , partisan differences in opinions about diversity were similar to the current gaps in views of whether America being open to people from around the world is essential . Seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 70 % ) said greater diversity made the U.S. a better place to live , compared with about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) .
The public expresses more confidence in Barack Obama to deal with the budget deficit than either Democratic or Republican congressional leaders . About one-in five ( 22 % ) say they have a great deal of confidence in Obama on the deficit ; 12 % say the same about Democratic congressional leaders and 7 % express a great deal of confidence in GOP congressional leaders on this issue .
As of September 2010 , 4 % of American adults own a tablet computer such as an iPad . Though education and household income are high predictors for owning a tablet computer , as with e-book readers , they are also more popular with adults age 56 and under ( who are significantly more likely to own a tablet computer than adults age 66 and older ) .
By the third generation – a group made up of the U.S.-born children of U.S.-born parents and immigrant grandparents – the share that self-identifies as Hispanic falls to 77 % . And by the fourth or higher generation ( U.S.-born children of U.S.-born parents and U.S.-born grandparents , or even more distant relatives ) , just half of U.S. adults with Hispanic ancestry say they are Hispanic .1
Venezuela is the only Latin American country surveyed in which economic worries match the level of concern over climate change . A majority of Venezuelans ( 56 % ) name the condition of the global economy as a major threat , virtually tied with the 55 % who say the same about climate change . In five of the six remaining Latin American nations surveyed , the condition of the world economy ranks as the second-greatest threat .
In our 2013 survey on radical life extension , 56 % of adults said they would not want to live at least 120 years , which is considered the current upper limit of the human life span . Likewise , roughly two-thirds of adults in our 2016 poll on human enhancement said they would not want a brain chip implant to improve their cognitive abilities ( 66 % ) or synthetic blood to augment their physical abilities ( 63 % ) . American adults were somewhat more open to the possibility of using gene editing to reduce the risk of serious disease in babies , with 48 % saying they would be interested , but a similar share ( 50 % ) said they would not want to use the technology on their baby .
So far the indications for that are not so good . Recent months have shown signs of economic progress and indications that the Affordable Care Act has begun to achieve its goals . But there is little indication that the unemployment rate 's falling to 6.3 % , the Dow Jones average soaring to a new high and the ACA signing up 8 million people , ( including many young people , ) had any effect on attitudes about these two key issues .
Our August survey revealed a wide gulf in how Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton supporters viewed the country . It found Donald Trump supporters overwhelmingly believed that life in America is worse than it was 50 years ago `` for people like them , '' while most Hillary Clinton supporters took the opposite view , saying life for people like them has gotten better over the past half-century . The candidates ' supporters also differed in their expectations for the nation 's future . Trump backers were broadly pessimistic , while Clinton supporters had mixed assessments .
Hispanics who do not hold U.S. citizenship and do not hold a green card – a group likely to be in the country without authorization – are more likely than the U.S. born and other immigrants to express concern .1 Among likely unauthorized immigrants , 55 % say they have serious concerns about their place in the country after Trump 's election . Meanwhile , 38 % of U.S.-born Hispanics and 34 % of Hispanic immigrants who are U.S. citizens say they have serious concerns about their place in America . And among Hispanic immigrants who are lawful permanent residents , 49 % say the same .
According to the Pew Hispanic Center 's population estimates and projections , the Hispanic population increased from 8.5 million in 1966 - 67 to 44.7 million today . Latinos accounted for 36 % of the 100 million added to the population in the last four decades , the most of any racial or ethnic group . Immigration from Latin America and relatively high fertility rates among Latinos were major factors in this increase . The white population grew from 167.2 million in 1966 - 67 to 201.0 million today . That represented 34 % of the 100 million added since 1966 - 67 .
About half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 53 % ) say Mexico benefits more . That compares with 31 % of Republicans who say NAFTA benefits the two countries about equally and 7 % who say the U.S. benefits more than Mexico .
As Trump prepares to take office , 65 % say it is more important for the president-elect to focus on domestic policy ; far fewer ( 19 % ) say it 's more important for him to focus on foreign policy . Majorities have said domestic policy should be the president 's priority for much of the last decade . The last time the public gave as much emphasis to foreign as domestic policy was in 2007 , during George W. Bush 's second term . At that time , 40 % said it was more important to focus on foreign policy , compared with 39 % who said it was more important to focus on domestic policy .
Publicly funded news media also tend to be more trusted than privately funded organizations – both in general and when it comes to specific news outlets . For example , about three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Swedes and 71 % of British adults say they trust the public media more than private . In Spain and Italy , publics are more divided on the issue .
Obama 's travel itinerary will take him to three European countries where he is extremely popular : France , Germany and Britain . In France , 84 % of those following the U.S. presidential race say they have confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs ; only a third , however , are confident in McCain . The numbers are almost identical in Germany ( 82 % confidence in Obama , 33 % in McCain ) . The gap between the two candidates is slightly less pronounced in Britain , although it is still a staggering 30 percentage points — 74 % have confidence in Obama , 44 % in McCain . Obama also receives higher marks than McCain in the other two European Union countries included on the survey , Spain and Poland .
Paris Hilton 's legal problems became a national news story last week . Coverage of Hilton being released from and then returned to jail filled 4 % of the newshole , making it the fifth most heavily covered story of the week . Roughly a third of Americans ( 34 % ) said they followed news about Hilton very or fairly closely , and 12 % said it was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . In this regard , interest in Hilton surpassed interest in the 2008 presidential campaign , the G-8 summit , and talks between George Bush and Vladimir Putin . However , there was far more public interest in the situation in Iraq ( 25 % most closely ) than in Hilton 's out-again , in-again jail drama .
When it comes to personal communication devices , the cell phone remains the `` gadget of choice '' among Americans in 2010—fully 85 % of all adults ( and three-quarters of teens ) now own a mobile phone . Computers are the second-most commonly owned piece of personal technology , as six in ten Americans own a desktop computer and half own a laptop . Just under half of all adults own an mp3 player ( 47 % ) or console gaming device ( 42 % ) , while e-book readers and tablet computers are currently each owned by around one in twenty adults .
Even as Americans express concern about government access to their data , they feel as though government could do more to regulate what advertisers do with their personal information ; 64 % believe the government should do more to regulate advertisers , compared with 34 % who think the government should not get more involved .
But public confidence has turned upward with Democrats , not Republicans . Among Democrats and those leaning to the Democratic Party , 53 % have a great deal of confidence in medical scientists to act in the public interest , up from 37 % in January 2019 . But among Republicans and those who lean Republican , 31 % express a great deal of confidence in medical scientists , roughly the same as in 2019 ( 32 % ) . As a result , there is now a 22 percentage point difference between partisan groups when it comes to trust in medical scientists . Most people believe that evidence from public health experts is influencing government policies related to the coronavirus at least a fair amount , but more think such evidence has a great deal of influence on their state 's policies ( 43 % ) than on federal policy ( 26 % ) .
About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) Americans say the U.S. should help other countries deal with their problems , while a narrow majority ( 52 % ) says the U.S. should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their problems as best they can . In this regard , Americans are not drastically different from respondents in France , where 43 % believe their country should help other countries and 57 % say it should focus on its own problems .
Roughly seven-in-ten adults ( 71 % ) say it is very important for a man to be able to support a family financially to be a good husband or partner . By comparison , 32 % say it 's very important for a woman to do the same to be a good wife or partner , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
Overall , 35 % of U.S. adults say medical doctors have very high ethical standards , up from 23 % in a 2019 Center survey . While `` very high '' ratings are up significantly among both parties since 2019 , Democrats ( 39 % ) are more likely than Republicans ( 31 % ) to rate doctors ' ethical standards as very high .
This month 's Pew Research Center report on the state of U.S. race relations found that by and large , most blacks and whites say the two races generally get along well , though whites ( 81 % ) are somewhat more likely than blacks ( 73 % ) to say so . The survey suggests that overall perceptions of black-white relations have n't changed since Pew Research last asked the question ( in November 2009 ) ; about three-quarters of both blacks and whites in that earlier survey said the two races get along very or pretty well .
Republicans and Democrats are in general agreement on their feelings about Britain . Majorities in both parties ( 63 % of Democrats and 59 % of Republicans ) feel warmly toward Britain , with about four-in-ten in both saying they feel very warmly . These feelings are little changed since 2016 , although Republicans are slightly less likely to feel very warmly toward Britain ( 46 % in 2016 , 37 % now ) ; Democrats are somewhat more likely to feel very warmly ( 37 % in 2016 , 43 % now ) . A 55 % majority of Democrats express warm feelings toward Germany , compared with 37 % of Republicans . Virtually all of the partisan difference in feelings toward Germany is in the share of those who feel very warmly : 36 % of Democrats , compared with 19 % of Republicans .
There were nearly 60 million Latinos in the United States in 2017 , accounting for approximately 18 % of the total U.S. population . In 1980 , with a population of 14.8 million , Hispanics made up just 6.5 % of the total U.S. population . For more , read the accompanying blog post , `` Key facts about U.S. Hispanics and their diverse heritage . '' For facts on the foreign-born population in the United States , see our profile on U.S. immigrants .
Americans expect a range of scientific and technological developments ahead . But the public is divided over the prospects for space tourism in the next 50 years . Half ( 50 % ) believe this will happen while half are skeptical this will be routine for ordinary people . About a third of Americans ( 32 % ) believe that colonies on other planets – habitable for long periods of time – will be built by the year 2068 , while two-thirds ( 67 % ) doubt this will happen .
Dads are much more involved in child care than they were 50 years ago . In 2016 , fathers reported spending an average of eight hours a week on child care – about triple the time they provided in 1965 . And fathers put in about 10 hours a week on household chores in 2016 , up from four hours in 1965 . By comparison , mothers spent an average of about 14 hours a week on child care and 18 hours a week on housework in 2016 .
In fiscal 2019 , a total of 30,000 refugees were resettled in the U.S . The largest origin group of refugees was the Democratic Republic of the Congo , followed by Burma ( Myanmar ) , Ukraine , Eritrea and Afghanistan . Among all refugees admitted in fiscal year 2019 , 4,900 are Muslims ( 16 % ) and 23,800 are Christians ( 79 % ) . Texas , Washington , New York and California resettled more than a quarter of all refugees admitted in fiscal 2018 .
In contrast , positive ratings for the Chinese government 's rights record can be found in several predominantly Muslim countries . For instance , six-in-ten or more view China 's treatment of its people positively in Lebanon ( 68 % ) , Pakistan ( 65 % ) , and Indonesia ( 60 % ) . On balance , China also received largely positive ratings in the six sub-Saharan Africa nations polled , although many people in these countries do not offer an opinion on this question .
The results are clear on three of these aspects . Medians of around seven-in-ten say their countries have become more diverse and that gender equality has increased over the past 20 years . And roughly six-in-ten across the countries surveyed say that family ties have weakened . On the importance of religion , there is more variation by country . Overall , a median of 37 % say that religion plays a less important role in their countries than it did 20 years ago , while 27 % say it plays a more important role .
When asked how they feel about the future of different topics in their countries , opinions vary widely across issues . People are largely optimistic about the future of their country 's relations with other European nations , and they feel the same way about their country 's culture . However , there is considerably less optimism about the future regarding well-paying jobs and the way the political system works . European publics are especially pessimistic about reducing economic inequality – across the 14 EU nations surveyed , a median of just 23 % are optimistic about reducing the gap between rich and poor in their country .
Meanwhile , Americans have become less confident that the federal government is making serious efforts to protect U.S. elections from hacking and other technological threats . Since October 2018 , the share of Americans who say this has declined from 55 % to 47 % . Confidence in the government 's efforts to protect election systems has declined among members of both parties , though Republicans remain far more likely than Democrats to express confidence ( 65 % vs. 32 % ) .
Supporters of both parties are equally likely to follow political figures on social media , with 18 % of Republicans and 15 % of Democrats doing so . And as was the case with mobile political activity , voters in their 30s and 40s have experienced a particularly substantial increase in this behavior . Some 21 % of voters ages 30 - 49 follow political figures on social media , a more than three-fold increase from the previous midterm cycle .
Political and religious differences are somewhat less stark , but still apparent , in views of how friendly the media and scientists are toward religion . Pluralities of independents and Democrats say the media and scientists are neutral to religion . But majorities of Republicans ( 51 % ) and white evangelical Protestants ( 52 % ) in the survey say the news media are unfriendly toward religion . And almost half of weekly worship attenders say the media are unfriendly toward religion ( 46 % ) , compared with 29 % among those who attend religious services less often . Republicans , evangelicals , black Protestants and weekly churchgoers also stand out compared with other groups for viewing scientists as unfriendly toward religion .
Traditional left-right divisions play a bigger role than populist attitudes when it comes to views of the government 's role in ensuring a decent standard of living . In general , Western Europeans tend to say it is the government 's responsibility to ensure a decent standard of living for all : A median of 55 % across the eight countries surveyed hold this view ( though Germany is a notable exception ) . Left-right ideology is central to how people feel about this issue . Most of those on the political left place the responsibility on the government to guarantee that everyone has a decent standard of living , while many on the right say it is up to the individual . There tend to be smaller differences on this question between those with populist views and those with mainstream attitudes .
Nearly half of the public ( 46 % ) say news organizations have given too much coverage to the sexual harassment allegations against Cain . Fewer ( 33 % ) say this story has received the right amount of attention and just 13 % say it has received too little . Perceptions of coverage of the Penn State scandal are more mixed : 41 % say the story received too much coverage , while 40 % say it received the right amount . Just 12 % say it received too little . By contrast , about half ( 51 % ) say the congressional `` super committee '' – now negotiating behind closed doors to find ways to significantly reduce government spending and federal deficit – has gotten too little attention . Though a plurality views coverage of anti-Wall Street protests around the country as about right ( 37 % ) , about a quarter ( 26 % ) say the protests are getting too little coverage . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say the protests have received too much coverage .
In U.S. households consisting of married or cohabiting parents and one or more children under the age of 18 , 80 % of mothers say they are the household member who usually prepares the meals – the same as the share who say they are the primary grocery shopper , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . Some 71 % of moms say they primarily handle both chores . This compares with about two-in-ten fathers in this type of household who say they are the person who usually prepares the meals ( 19 % ) or grocery shops ( 20 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they are the one who usually does both tasks . Dads are about twice as likely as moms to say these chores are split equally : 20 % of dads say meal preparation is split equally , compared with 10 % of moms . There is a similar pattern for grocery shopping ( 23 % vs. 11 % ) .
In April , there was broad bipartisan support for the $ 2 trillion federal coronavirus aid package . Today , a sizable majority of the public ( 71 % ) thinks it will be necessary for the president and Congress to pass an additional economic assistance package for the country , with support for a second package much higher among Democrats than Republicans . About nine-in-ten Democrats ( 87 % ) say it will be necessary to pass another economic assistance package . However , views among Republicans are divided : 51 % say a new economic package will be necessary , while 47 % say it will not be necessary .
The vast majority of Democrats ( 90 % ) believe the U.S. should prioritize alternative energy development over expanded oil , coal and natural gas exploration and production . While generally supportive of prioritizing alternative energy sources , Republicans differ by ideology and generation , and more modestly by gender , in their views of U.S. energy supply priorities .
Middle-aged and older Americans have positive views of economic conditions . Roughly six-in-ten people ages 30 to 49 ( 61 % ) and 50 and older ( 59 % ) say the economy is very or somewhat good . And about half ( 49 % ) of Americans ages 18 to 29 agree .
In some countries , the regularity with which people interact with those of different racial or ethnic groups varied based on their own racial or ethnic identity . For example , in South Africa , where the majority of the population is black , 75 % of white South Africans ( who are in the minority ) reported interactions with people of different racial and ethnic groups , while roughly six-in-ten black adults ( 63 % ) said the same .
But when it comes to public opinion in Russia , newly released data from a 2013 Pew Research Center survey suggests a similar reaction is unlikely : nearly three-quarters of the Russian population ( 72 % ) think that homosexuality is morally unacceptable , with only 18 % saying it is acceptable or not a moral issue . In Russia , homosexuality tops the list of unacceptable behaviors even in comparison to other controversial issues , such as abortion and alcohol consumption . In fact , extramarital affairs ( 69 % unacceptable ) and gambling ( 62 % ) are the only other issues tested that are frowned upon by a majority of the Russian people .
Overall , nearly half ( 49 % ) of U.S. adults say increased tariffs between the U.S. and its trading partners will be bad for the country . A smaller share ( 40 % ) say the tariffs will be good for the U.S. , while 11 % say they do n't know how the tariffs will affect the country .
But among Trump backers in particular , there are some notable differences in these views by strength of support for the candidate . Half of all Trump supporters say undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. are more likely than American citizens to commit serious crimes . However , 59 % of Trump supporters who support him strongly say this , compared with 42 % of those who do not support him strongly .
In Latin America and the Caribbean , the median age is 31 , almost identical to the global median . About a quarter of Latin Americans ( 24 % ) are below the age of 15 , and 13 % are 60 or older .
In addition to being dissatisfied with their political system , a median of 64 % across the 34 emerging and developing nations surveyed say that higher-income people have too much influence in their political system . Just 15 % say that those with high incomes do not have enough political power , and 11 % say they have the right amount . In contrast , most think middle- and lower-income people have too little influence on politics . A median of 56 % say that middle-income people do not have enough power , while 60 % say this about those with lower incomes .
Reporters for niche outlets now fill more seats in the Senate press gallery than do journalists who work for daily newspapers . The face of the Washington press corps has changed markedly in recent years , transformed by this increase in the number of journalists working for `` niche '' publications and digital startups .
Roughly two-thirds of likely Republican voters in South Carolina ( 68 % ) describe themselves as conservative , and Thompson ( 20 % ) and Romney ( 19 % ) lead in this group . Giuliani has the support of 27 % among moderate and liberal GOP primary voters .
Most Europeans doubt that Muslims coming into their countries want to adopt their national customs and way of life . Substantial majorities in Germany ( 76 % ) , Great Britain ( 64 % ) , Spain ( 67 % ) and Russia ( 69 % ) say that Muslims in their country want to remain distinct from the larger society .
The middle groups in the typology are less predictable . To be sure , the Faith and Family Left and the Next Generation Left favor Democratic congressional candidates this year by roughly two-to-one margins . But they supported Barack Obama by wider margins in 2012 , and their 2014 turnout is suspect . One early indicator of voter turnout is attention to government and public affairs , and fewer than half in these groups are following politics , compared with broad majorities in the more ideological groups . And the Hard-Pressed Skeptics – who say they supported Obama over Romney by a 65 % -25 % margin two years ago – are more closely divided in 2014 . As they look toward this year 's midterms , 51 % plan to vote for the Democrat in their congressional district , while 37 % plan to vote Republican . And the Republican-leaning Young Outsiders intend to vote Republican this fall by a somewhat larger margin ( 20 points ) than they did in 2012 ( 11 points ) . Yet these groups also are less certain to turn out this fall compared with the more partisan bases .
In the follow-up questions on those October surveys , we found that Twitter users are nearly equally divided between those who check the site on a daily basis ( or multiple times per day ) and those who check the site infrequently or never . Just over one-third of Twitter users ( 36 % ) check for material posted by others on a daily basis or multiple times per day—this is roughly comparable to the two in five ( 41 % ) who say they check the site less than every few weeks , or never do so at all . The remaining one-quarter of users say they check the site for updates a few days each week or every few weeks .
About half or more of the publics in both emerging economies ( 51 % ) and developing nations ( 54 % ) believe that when today 's children grow up they will be better off financially than their parents . This includes more than half in 11 of 21 emerging markets and five of eight developing countries .
The public does not believe Europe 's financial crisis presents much of a threat to the U.S. economy . Last December , Pew Research asked about the seriousness of several possible threats to the U.S. economy . Fully 76 % said the size of the national debt posed a major threat to U.S. economic well-being . Fewer than half ( 46 % ) said Europe 's economic problems represented a major threat . In terms of foreign threats , far more viewed economic competition from China as a major concern than the European crisis .
In a new survey , fewer than a quarter of registered voters express `` warm '' or positive views of McConnell , the Senate majority leader . When asked to rate the two senators on a `` feeling thermometer '' – in which 100 represents the warmest rating and 0 the coldest – 23 % of voters say they feel very or somewhat warmly toward McConnell . Just 13 % give him a very warm rating of 76 or more on the scale .
People in Latin America also strongly support the U.S. ending its trade embargo against Cuba , which U.S. President Barack Obama has pledged to do , but would need congressional approval to move forward . Overall , a median of 76 % across five Latin American countries support the lifting of the embargo , while only 13 % oppose such an action . Support for the U.S. removing the embargo , as with re-establishing diplomatic ties , is strongest in Argentina ( 79 % ) , Chile ( 77 % ) and Venezuela ( 76 % ) . Majorities of Brazilians ( 71 % ) and Mexicans ( 55 % ) also endorse the ending of the embargo , which would allow U.S. companies to do business in Cuba and Cuban companies to seek profit in the U.S .
By contrast , about as many say the Democratic Party is divided as not ( 48 % mostly divided , 49 % mostly united ) . But that represents a change from October , when 39 % of registered voters thought the party was divided .
Notably , more than nine-in-ten Republicans ( 93 % ) cite ISIS as a major threat , compared with 79 % of Democrats . Republicans also are also far more likely than Democrats to view Iran 's nuclear program as a major threat ( 79 % vs. 52 % ) .
Against the backdrop of organized school walkouts and marches calling for new legislation to address gun violence , teens see more value in some proposed measures than others . Asked to assess how effective various measures would be at preventing school shootings , 86 % of teens say that preventing people with mental illnesses from purchasing guns and that improving mental health screening and treatment would be effective , including majorities who say each of these proposals would be very effective . Roughly eight-in-ten teens ( 79 % ) say that having metal detectors in schools would be effective and 66 % say the same about banning assault-style weapons .
By about two-to-one , voters say that their recent conversations about the election have been more about the candidates ' personalities and comments ( 59 % ) than about specific issues or policy positions ( 32 % ) . Though both Trump and Clinton supporters are more likely to say their conversations have been focused on personalities and comments rather than issues and policies , Clinton supporters are particularly likely to say this ( 66 % vs. 53 % of Trump supporters ) .
While majorities of nearly all Republican groups back substantially expanding the wall along the U.S. border with Mexico , those ages 18 to 49 are less likely to support this policy than those 50 and older ( 60 % compared with 83 % ) . And support for an expended border wall is significantly higher among conservative Republicans ( 81 % ) than among moderates and liberals ( 55 % ) . Opinions about expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall vary more widely across groups . For instance , 45 % of whites favor expanding the wall , about twice the shares of blacks ( 22 % ) and Hispanics ( 20 % ) .
As desegregation , rising incomes and increased access to financial aid resulted in more college options for blacks , the share of blacks attending HBCUs began to shrink . By fall 1980 , 17 % of black students enrolled in degree-granting institutions were enrolled at an HBCU . By 2000 , that share had declined to 13 % , and it stood at 9 % in 2015 .
Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , women ( 48 % ) are now more likely than men ( 39 % ) to rate the party positively in standing up for its traditional positions ; there are no significant gender differences in Republicans ' views of their party 's advocacy of its traditional positions . In addition , black and Hispanic Democrats are more likely than whites to say the Democratic Party is doing an excellent or good job in standing up for its traditional positions . Liberal Democrats are less positive about how their party stands up for traditional positions than are the party 's conservatives and moderates . Four-in-ten liberal Democrats say the party does well in promoting the party 's traditional positions , compared with 49 % of conservative and moderate Democrats .
China has emerged as a global economic superpower in recent decades . It is not only the world 's second largest economy and the largest exporter by value , but it has also been investing in overseas infrastructure and development at a rapid clip as part of its Belt and Road Initiative . A new Pew Research Center survey finds that , particularly in emerging markets , publics largely have a positive view of China 's economic stature . People generally see China 's growing economy as a good thing for their country and believe China is having a predominantly positive influence on their country 's economic affairs .
By definition , the most active tweeters produce a large amount of content relative to the rest of the Twitter population . But the scope of these differences is profound . The median Twitter user posts just two times a month , but the most prolific 10 % of Twitter users in terms of tweet volume produce a median of 138 tweets monthly . In fact , this analysis estimates that the top 10 % of tweeters are responsible for 80 % of the tweets created by all U.S. adults on Twitter .
In September 1945 , the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago asked Americans what they would have done if they had been the one to decide whether or not to use the atomic bomb against Japan . At the time , a plurality of Americans supported the course chosen by the Truman administration : 44 % said they would have bombed one city at a time , and another 23 % would have wiped out cities in general – in other words , two-thirds would have bombed some urban area . Just 26 % would have dropped the bomb on locations that had no people . And only 4 % would not have used the bomb .
On the other side , only 29 % of Turks say they should use force to defend their ally , with around a quarter undecided ( 23 % ) . Because of the relatively high number of undecided people in Turkey on this question , the percentage saying that they should defend a NATO ally is much lower than the 8 country NATO median ( 48 % ) .
With the general election less than five months away , a larger share of registered voters say they would vote for Joe Biden than Donald Trump ( 54 % vs. 44 % ) if the election were held today . For the most part , the demographic patterns in candidate preferences from the 2016 elections are evident today . ( See this study for a detailed analysis of the 2016 electorate , based on validated voters . )
The sentiments against political ads extend across most groups , though there are some differences tied to factors like partisanship and age . For instance , just 15 % of Democrats and independents who lean toward the Democratic Party say that social media companies should allow all political ads on their platforms , compared with 38 % of Republicans and GOP leaners . Some 27 % of Democrats say only some political ads should be allowed on these platforms , compared with a much smaller share of Republicans ( 10 % ) who say the same . When it comes to not allowing any political ads on these sites at all , 56 % of Democrats and half of Republicans express this view .
Just 27 % are bothered `` a lot '' by the amount they pay in taxes . By contrast , 64 % say they are bothered a lot by the feeling that some corporations do not pay their fair share of taxes , and 61 % say the same about some wealthy people failing to pay their fair share . In views of other aspects of the tax system , 44 % say they are bothered a lot by the complexity of the system , while just 20 % are bothered a great deal by the feeling that some poor people are not paying their fair share of taxes .
Unauthorized immigrants made up roughly one-fifth ( 16 % to 20 % ) of Europe 's total non-EU-EFTA population in 2017 , according to estimates , with 4 % being unauthorized immigrants with a pending asylum claim that year . This means authorized non-EU-EFTA citizens living in Europe outnumbered unauthorized immigrants by about four to one .
Overwhelmingly , Indians give their government high marks for its handling of the economy ; 85 % say it is doing a good job . And most are optimistic about the future , with 64 % saying the economy will improve over the next 12 months .
Data from Pew Research Center and other sources show that around half of newspaper readers consume newspapers only in their printed form . In our study of the local news environments in three markedly different U.S. metropolitan areas , nearly or about half of readers of the local daily paper in Denver ( 46 % ) , Macon , Ga. ( 48 % ) , and Sioux City , Iowa ( 53 % ) did not access the paper online . Indeed , print newspaper readers tend to be news enthusiasts . They are more likely to often watch local TV news than those newspaper readers who access the paper online instead of or in addition to the print edition . And although print-only readers in the three cities studied are certainly older than their counterparts who access the paper online – in their mid-50s , compared with online newspaper readers , who were generally in their early to mid-40s – this difference persists even when controlling for age . If print distribution becomes economically unfeasible , it remains to be seen whether this group will finally move to the online edition , or be content with getting their local news from TV , as they already do .
Overall , 62 % of Republicans say average Republicans in the country generally agree with Trump on most issues . However , three-in-ten say that average Republicans do not agree with Trump 's positions on issues .
Younger adult Americans consume more digital video and digital news video than older ones . Nearly half of adults ages 18 to 29 watch online news video . That substantially outpaces that of older Americans . And it stands in contrast with surveys showing that when it comes to television news viewing habits , 18 - 29 year-olds tend to watch less than any other age group . More highly educated and wealthier Americans are more likely to watch digital news video . Slightly more than half of Americans with a bachelor or graduate degree from college ( 52 % ) watch news video online . This is moderately higher than the video news viewing of those who completed some college ( 43 % ) and more than double the rate of those with a high school degree or less ( 22 % ) . In addition , Americans who earn more than $ 75,000 a year in household income are more likely watch news videos online .
Government restrictions on religion and social hostilities related to religion decreased somewhat between 2013 and 2014 , the second consecutive year of decline . The share of countries with governments imposing high or very high levels of restrictions on religion dropped from 28 % in 2013 to 24 % in 2014 . During the same period , the share of countries with high levels of social hostilities – those perpetrated by individuals or groups – also dropped , from 27 % to 23 % . ( For more on the index used to determine these measures , see the full report . )
In Western European countries , sentiments tend to run in the opposite direction . In Sweden ( 82 % ) , the Netherlands ( 74 % ) , the UK ( 72 % ) , Germany ( 62 % ) , Spain ( 60 % ) and France ( 59 % ) , majorities disagree that there are parts of other countries that belong to them .
Russians are split on Eurasian Economic Union membership for Ukraine , and they want the Donbas region of that country to secede . Only 45 % of Russians say Ukraine should join the Eurasian Economic Union ( EEU ) , a supranational body that consists of Russia , Armenia , Belarus and Kazakhstan , with Kyrgyzstan as an acceding state . Four-in-ten Russians are opposed to Ukraine joining the EEU . However , few Russians want Ukraine to join NATO ( 3 % support ) or the European Union ( 14 % ) .
Of all U.S. mothers , Hispanics are among the most likely to report that they are at home with their children . Fully 38 % of Hispanic moms living with their children younger than 18 are not working outside the home , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 30-Nov. 6 among 2,003 adults , finds that two-thirds ( 67 % ) favor requiring chain restaurants to list calorie counts on menus . But just 31 % support limits on the size of sugary soft drinks in restaurants and convenience stores – 67 % oppose this idea . More than half ( 55 % ) favor banning TV ads of unhealthy foods during children 's programming , but barely a third ( 35 % ) supports raising taxes on sugary soft drinks and unhealthy foods . On each of these policies , Democrats and women are more supportive than Republicans , independents and men .
Seven-in-ten of those who live less than 25 miles from the coastline say climate change is affecting their local community a great deal or some . By comparison , 57 % of those who live 300 miles or more from the coastline say climate change is affecting their local community at least some .
By and large , Americans have confidence that reviews and ratings can be beneficial : Majorities say reviews have at least a somewhat positive effect on consumer confidence ( 88 % think they help a lot or some ) , product safety ( 80 % ) and company accountability ( 78 % ) .
Despite the nearly ubiquitous presence of social media in their lives , there is no clear consensus among teens about these platforms ' ultimate impact on people their age . A plurality of teens ( 45 % ) believe social media has a neither positive nor negative effect on people their age . Meanwhile , roughly three-in-ten teens ( 31 % ) say social media has had a mostly positive impact , while 24 % describe its effect as mostly negative . Given the opportunity to explain their views in their own words , teens who say social media has had a mostly positive effect tended to stress issues related to connectivity and connection with others . Some 40 % of these respondents said that social media has had a positive impact because it helps them keep in touch and interact with others . Many of these responses emphasize how social media has made it easier to communicate with family and friends and to connect with new people :
Although there is a pervasive gloominess about the state of the economy throughout much of the world , Africans are relatively positive about their short- and long-term economic future . Across the nine African nations polled , a median of 60 % say they expect their country 's economy to improve over the next 12 months , the highest of any region . A median of 56 % believe children in their country today will be financially better off than their parents , and about seven-in-ten or more hold this view in Nigeria , Ethiopia and Burkina Faso .
The estimated total U.S. daily newspaper circulation ( print and digital combined ) in 2018 was 28.6 million for weekday and 30.8 million for Sunday , down 8 % and 9 % , respectively , from the previous year . The addition of these figures would also change the overall picture for combined print and digital circulation . The digital boost driven by these two large , national brands would still result in an overall drop in circulation year over year , but a smaller one : Overall weekday circulation would have fallen by 1 % in 2018 rather than 8 % .
Far fewer refugees are entering Europe in 2016 than in 2015 . In summer 2016 , an average of about 100 migrants from Syria , Afghanistan , Iraq and other countries have landed each day on Greece 's shores , down from the thousands who arrived daily last summer . Meanwhile , migration into Italy this year continues at a similar pace to 2015 . An average of about 500 refugees , mostly from sub-Saharan Africa , arrived daily between January and August of both 2015 and 2016 .
Other factors play a much smaller role—14 % of users say that connecting around a shared hobby or interest is a major reason they use social media , and 9 % say that making new friends is equally important . Reading comments by public figures and finding potential romantic partners are cited as major factors by just 5 % and 3 % of social media users , respectively .
There also are striking educational differences in partisans ' views of global warming . Among Republicans , higher education is linked to greater skepticism about global warming — fully 43 % of Republicans with a college degree say that there is no evidence of global warming , compared with 24 % of Republicans with less education . But among Democrats , the pattern is the reverse . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that there is solid evidence of global warming and that it is caused by human activities . This is far higher than among Democrats with less education among whom 52 % say the same . Independents , regardless of education levels , fall in between these partisan extremes .
Since 1960 , the nation 's Latino population has increased nearly ninefold , from 6.3 million then to 56.5 million by 2015 . It is projected to grow to 107 million by 2065 , according to the latest Pew Research Center projections . The foreign-born Latino population has increased to nearly 20 times its size over the past half century , from less than 1 million in 1960 to 19.4 million in 2015 . On the other hand , while the U.S.-born Latino population has only increased sixfold over this time period , there are about 32 million more U.S.-born Latinos in the U.S. today ( 37.1 million ) than there were in 1960 ( 5.5 million ) .
Political conversations highlight differences , but most think it 's still possible to agree on nonpolitical topics . Roughly half of Republicans ( 50 % ) and Democrats ( 46 % ) say talking about politics with people they disagree with is generally `` stressful and frustrating , '' rather than `` interesting and informative . ''
Until recently , Facebook had dominated the social media landscape among America 's youth – but it is no longer the most popular online platform among teens , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Today , roughly half ( 51 % ) of U.S. teens ages 13 to 17 say they use Facebook , notably lower than the shares who use YouTube , Instagram or Snapchat .
In addition to expressing positive views of their country , Indians believe it plays a growing role on the world stage . Roughly half are supportive of India 's burgeoning international economic engagement and are committed to their allies . At the same time , the public is wary of China and longtime rival Pakistan . They favor a militaristic stance against terrorism and support increased defense spending . But only about a quarter want their country to help other nations deal with their problems .
Growth has slowed sharply in recent years . According to Cuba 's national statistical agency , the country 's gross domestic product in 2013 was 77.2 billion pesos – which , depending on which exchange rate one uses , could equate to anything from $ 77.2 billion ( at the official rate of 1 convertible peso to $ 1 ) to $ 3.2 billion ( at the internal rate of 24 regular pesos to 1 convertible peso ) . But either way , growth has slowed dramatically from the mid-2000s : The CIA estimates that Cuba 's GDP grew just 1.3 % last year in real ( inflation-adjusted ) terms – 177th out of 222 countries ranked . One big reason : With global oil prices still well below their pre-recession highs , the heavily discounted oil that Venezuela sends Cuba – some of which Cuba re-exports – is less valuable .
A higher percentage of men ( 58 % ) than women ( 45 % ) are following candidate news very or fairly closely . Women are nearly twice as likely as men ( 20 % vs. 12 % ) to say they are following candidate news not at all closely . The level of engagement with candidate news increases steadily with age , a pattern seen in previous research about news more generally . Among those ages 18 to 29 , 39 % are following news about the candidates very or fairly closely . The percentage rises to 46 % among those ages 30 to 49 , 57 % among those ages 50 to 64 and around two-thirds ( 66 % ) of those 65 and older . Americans 65 and older are more than twice as likely as those 18 to 29 to say they are following candidate news very closely ( 30 % vs. 12 % ) . In the new survey , differences by gender , race , ethnicity and age are similar to those in the Feb. 18-March 2 survey . But in nearly all these demographic groups , the share of people who are fairly or very closely following candidate news has declined since February . One exception is among the youngest adults : In both surveys , 39 % of those ages 18 to 29 said they are paying fairly or very close attention to news about the candidates .
One particularly popular spending cut in the name of deficit reduction is to reduce U.S. assistance to foreign countries ( 72 % approve ) . A substantial 65 % also supports reducing U.S. military commitments overseas as a way to reduce the deficit . This comports with the broad impression – held by six-in-ten – that the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has contributed greatly to the size of the current national debt , more than any other factor tested .
Since 1980 , the share of immigrants who are proficient in English ( those who speak only English at home or speak English at least `` very well '' ) has declined , though it has increased slightly in recent years . This decline has been driven entirely by those who speak only English at home , which fell from 30 % of immigrants ages 5 and older in 1980 to 17 % in 2018 . The share who speaks English `` very well , '' meanwhile , has increased slightly , from 27 % to 37 % over the same time period .
Most strikingly , China heads the list of countries that are , on balance , satisfied with the way things are going at home . More than seven-in-ten Chinese citizens ( 72 % ) express satisfaction with their national condition , while fewer than one-in-five ( 19 % ) are dissatisfied . These figures represent a sharp improvement from 2002 , when only 48 % said they were satisfied with their country while 33 % were not . On this score , China far outstrips India , where only 41 % say they are content with national conditions . And in China , the level of satisfaction is more than three times higher than in Russia , where only 23 % are pleased with their country 's direction .
The share of Americans who favor conducting all elections by mail has risen 18 percentage points from 34 % in the fall of 2018 to 52 % today . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents account for most of this overall increase . Just prior to the 2018 midterm elections , four-in-ten Democrats said they favored conducting all elections by mail . Today , nearly seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) say this , including 34 % who strongly favor vote-by-mail elections .
The Postal Service also has been trying to reduce its physical footprint , despite resistance from communities and , often , their representatives in Congress . The total number of Postal Service facilities has fallen 9.3 % over the past two decades , from more than 38,000 nationwide in 1999 to around 34,600 as of Sept. 30 . However , the number of individual mailboxes , P.O . boxes , and other `` delivery points '' – currently 159.9 million – typically grows by 1 million or more each year , adding to the Postal Service 's challenges .
On the digital side , The Atlantic and The Economist fared the best in terms of growing their audiences in recent years , according to comScore data provided by the MPA . Both publications posted gains in their web traffic between the third quarters of 2013 and 2014 . The New Yorker , however , saw its traffic decline slightly , falling from 3.3 million unique visitors to 3.1 million .
On dealing with North Korea , Americans preferred sanctions , while opinion in Asia-Pacific differed by country . A majority of Americans ( 61 % ) said increasing economic sanctions is better than deepening ties with North Korea , the spring 2017 global survey found . Republicans ( 70 % ) and older Americans ( 69 % ) were more likely to prefer sanctions than Democrats ( 61 % ) and younger people ( 49 % ) . Attitudes diverged among Asia-Pacific countries on how best to deal with North Korea 's nuclear program . Half or more in Japan , South Korea and Australia backed stronger sanctions , while people in Vietnam and the Philippines leaned toward deepening ties with North Korea . ( However , many of those surveyed in Indonesia and Vietnam did not offer an opinion . )
New data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention provides more evidence that Black Americans have been hospitalized with COVID-19 at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups . But while the CDC has pointed to some possible factors that may be contributing to this pattern – such as work and residential circumstances – the public is divided in its perceptions , particularly along party lines , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 4 - 10 . Most U.S. adults ( 63 % ) say a major reason for higher COVID-19 hospitalization rates among Black people is that they are more likely to live in densely populated areas . Smaller but still substantial shares point to Black people being more likely to have other health conditions that put them at risk ( 52 % ) , that they are less likely to have access to adequate health care ( 49 % ) and that they are more likely to work in industries that require contact with the public ( 45 % ) .
College grads are more satisfied with their jobs : College-educated Millennials are more likely to see themselves on a career path , rather than just working at a job to get them by .
At a global scale , China 's economic trajectory over the course of the century 's first decade looms large . Home to more than 1.3 billion people , or nearly 20 % of the world 's population , China alone accounted for more than one-in-two additions to the global middle-income population from 2001 to 2011 . The result was a pivot to the east , with the share of the world 's middle-income population residing in Asia & South Pacific increasing from 31 % in 2001 to 51 % in 2011.18
Across seven Asia-Pacific nations surveyed , a median of 62 % see ISIS as a major threat and 61 % see global climate change in the same light . About half across the region see cyberattacks and Chinese power as a major challenge . Fewer are very concerned about the global economy , refugees or American and Russian power .
Only six women in 2007 held the title of president , chief operating officer and/or head of operations – typically the second-highest office in a corporation , and often seen as the CEO 's heir apparent . In 2017 , women in those roles had tripled in number , to 18 , but they still represented just 7.5 % of the total .
As the long presidential campaign winds down , GOP nominee Donald Trump 's claims that the process is `` rigged '' against him – and suggestions that he might not accept the result as legitimate if he loses – seem to have struck a chord with his supporters . In a recent Pew Research Center survey , 56 % of Trump voters said they have little or no confidence that the election will be `` open and fair , '' compared with 11 % of Hillary Clinton backers . Among those who say they strongly back Trump , nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) say they have little or no confidence that the election will be fair .
Asked why they had n't yet naturalized , the Center 's 2015 survey found that 35 % of Mexican and 23 % of other Latino immigrants with green cards identified personal barriers , such as a lack of English proficiency . Another common reason given was a lack of interest or just having not applied yet . About a third ( 31 % ) of Mexican lawful immigrants said this , while only 16 % of non-Mexican Latino immigrants said the same . An additional 13 % of Mexican and 19 % of non-Mexican lawful immigrants identified financial and administrative barriers , mainly the cost of naturalization .
The most negative reviews of China 's COVID-19 response come from three nations in the Asia-Pacific region . More than seven-in-ten in Japan , South Korea and Australia say China has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak , including more than four-in-ten in each country who say they did a very bad job . Assessments of China 's handling of the coronavirus outbreak are generally much more negative than those given to other nations and institutions . Publics give the highest ratings to their own country 's coronavirus response ( median of 73 % good job ) . And a median of about six-in-ten say the World Health Organization and European Union have done a good job dealing with the coronavirus . The exception to this pattern comes in assessments of the United States ' handling of the virus , which receives even more negative ratings on its COVID-19 strategy : A median of 84 % believe the American response to the pandemic has been bad , while just 15 % rate it as good .
Democrats Favored . In March , Democrats held a wide lead as the party that better represents people 's views on abortion : 49 % of voters said the Democratic Party better reflected their views on abortion compared with 33 % who said the Republican Party . And in July , Barack Obama held a comparable advantage over Mitt Romney as the candidate best able to reflect people 's views on social issues like abortion and gay rights : 50 % said Obama could do the best job of reflecting people 's views on these issues ; just 36 % said Romney could do best .
The new Republican-led Congress is drawing harsh reviews from the public – including most Republicans . Just 23 % of Americans say congressional Republicans are keeping the promises they made during last fall 's campaign , while 65 % say they are not .
Substantial numbers of Americans say they have difficulty affording some of life 's necessities . Six-in-ten say it is difficult for them and their families to afford gasoline , and smaller majorities say the same about saving for retirement ( 56 % ) and paying their taxes ( 51 % ) . Substantial minorities also say they have difficulty affording health care ( 45 % ) , utility bills ( 44 % ) , and health insurance ( 44 % ) . More than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they have trouble affording food .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
The salary gap between public relations specialists and news reporters has widened over the past decade – to almost $ 20,000 a year , according to 2013 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data analyzed by the Pew Research Center . At the same time , the public relations field has expanded to a degree that these specialists now outnumber reporters by nearly 5 to 1 ( BLS data include part-time and full-time employees , but not self-employed . ) In 2013 , according to BLS data , public relations specialists earned a median annual income of $ 54,940 compared with $ 35,600 for reporters . In other words , journalists on average earn just 65 % of what those in public relations earn . That is a greater income gap than in 2004 when journalists were paid 71 cents of every dollar earned by those in public relations ( $ 43,830 versus $ 31,320 ) .
Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say they support the federal government providing all Americans with a guaranteed income if computers and robots become widely competitive with humans ( 77 % vs. 38 % ) . Democrats are also substantially more likely than Republicans to favor a federally run service program for displaced workers ( 66 % vs. 46 % ) . On other questions related to automation policies , there are smaller or no partisan differences . For example , large majorities in both parties ( 85 % of Democrats and 86 % of Republicans ) say workforce automation should be primarily limited to jobs that are dangerous or unhealthy for humans to do . And about six-in-ten in each party ( 63 % of Democrats and 61 % of Republicans ) support allowing consumers to pay extra to interact with a human when buying goods or services .
One million immigrants receive lawful permanent resident status each year – also known as a green card – that puts them on a path to citizenship , and most are sponsored by family members . Among the 1,051,031 people granted green cards in fiscal 2015 , 65 % were relatives of a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident . Most of these relatives are spouses ( 25 % of new lawful permanent residents ) , parents ( 13 % ) and minor children ( 6.3 % ) of U.S. citizens ages 21 and older ; they are admitted without quotas . Other family admission visas – for adult children and siblings of U.S. citizens , and spouses and children of lawful permanent residents – are subject to category and country limits . About 144,000 green cards in fiscal 2015 went to people on employment visas and their family members . About 152,000 went to refugees and people granted asylum . Nearly 48,000 went to immigrants admitted under a `` diversity '' program to provide additional visas to nations with low U.S. immigration . From fiscal 2004 to 2015 , 57 % of people who got green cards already lived in the U.S. on temporary visas : There were a total of 5.5 million new arrivals , compared with a total of 7.4 million already living in the U.S. who adjusted their immigration status .
Americans are optimistic about the future of space exploration . A 2010 survey conducted by Pew Research and Smithsonian magazine found that 63 % of Americans expected astronauts to land on Mars , and 53 % believed that ordinary people would be able to travel in space by 2050 . Some Americans are even more hopeful about the possibilities of space exploration . One-third of Americans predicted in a 2014 Pew Research/Smithsonian survey that humans will have long-term space colonies in the next 50 years .
Majorities of Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party ( 74 % ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( 66 % ) say the core ideas of how to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are pretty well understood . Most Democrats ( 83 % ) and Republicans ( 72 % ) also say that it makes sense that some studies on the spread of coronavirus have conflicting advice because the research is constantly improving .
But there was significant variation across the countries studied . For example , in Jordan and Lebanon , both heavily affected by the Syrian refugee crisis , seven-in-ten or more said their country has been made worse by increasing diversity . In contrast , around half or more in Kenya ( 49 % ) , the Philippines ( 54 % ) , Colombia ( 66 % ) and India ( 68 % ) said their country is improved by these demographic changes . In most countries surveyed , people who interact more with those who are different from them – whether religiously , ethnically or racially – tended to be more positive toward societal diversity .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say that undocumented immigrants living in the United States mostly fill jobs that American citizens do not want . Nearly as many ( 65 % ) say undocumented immigrants are not more likely than U.S. citizens to commit serious crimes .
Those with favorable views of right-wing populist parties in Europe generally are more likely to express net approval of Trump 's six signature foreign policies . In Sweden and Hungary , for example , those who support Sweden Democrats and Fidesz are at least 24 percentage points more likely than those who do not to express net approval of Trump 's policies . Large gaps also exist in Spain , the UK , the Czech Republic and the Netherlands .
10 Three-in-ten Americans turn to 2016 presidential candidates ' digital messages for news and information about the election – and the candidates ' social media posts outpace their websites and emails as sources of this news . Roughly a quarter of U.S. adults ( 24 % ) turn to social media posts from either the Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump campaigns as a way of keeping up with the election ; this is a higher share than say they turn to the candidates ' campaign websites ( 10 % ) or emails ( 9 % ) . While all age groups rely more on campaign social media communications than their emails or websites , young adults are the most likely to do so : Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 turn to candidates ' social media accounts , compared with 28 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 19 % of those ages 50 to 64 , and 11 % of those age 65+ .
A majority of Americans believe the U.S. is one of the greatest nations in the world . More than eight-in-ten ( 85 % ) said in a June 2017 survey that the U.S. either `` stands above all other countries in the world '' ( 29 % ) or that it is `` one of the greatest countries , along with some others '' ( 56 % ) . While large shares in all adult generations say America is among the greatest countries , those in the Silent Generation ( ages 73 to 90 in 2018 ) are the most likely to say the U.S. `` stands above '' all others ( 46 % ) , while Millennials are the least likely to say this ( 18 % ) .
Specifically , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) believe gene editing will very likely lead to increased inequality because it will only be available to the wealthy . Some 54 % of Americans anticipate a slippery slope , saying it 's very likely that `` even if gene editing is used appropriately in some cases , others will use these techniques in ways that are morally unacceptable . '' And , 46 % expect it is very likely that gene editing techniques will be used before we fully understand how they affect people 's health .
Overall , roughly one-in-five parents with homebound schoolchildren say it is very or somewhat likely their children will not be able complete their schoolwork because they do not have access to a computer at home ( 21 % ) or have to use public Wi-Fi to finish their schoolwork because there is not a reliable internet connection at home ( 22 % ) . And about three-in-ten parents ( 29 % ) report that it is at least somewhat likely their children will have to do their schoolwork on a cellphone .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Mar . 25 - 29 among 1,500 adults , finds widespread doubts about how the death penalty is applied and whether it deters serious crime . Yet a majority ( 63 % ) says that when someone commits a crime like murder , the death penalty is morally justified ; just 31 % say it is morally wrong , even in cases of murder .
When asked about the household 's financial situation , 41 % of Republicans who voted in all three elections said they `` live comfortably . '' Among Republican drop-off voters 28 % said they live comfortably , as did 30 % of nonvoters . Among Democrats , the pattern is even starker : 37 % of consistent voters said they live comfortably , compared with 27 % of less frequent voters and just 21 % of nonvoters .
Black History Month , which is celebrated every year in February , honors the achievements of black Americans throughout history . It 's also a time to reflect on larger themes of identity and community . Findings from Pew Research Center surveys conducted in recent years show that most black adults feel that they are part of a broader black community in the United States and see their race as important to how they think of themselves . About three-quarters of black adults say that being black is extremely ( 52 % ) or very ( 22 % ) important to how they think about themselves , according to a 2019 Pew Research Center survey . By comparison , about six-in-ten Hispanic ( 59 % ) and 56 % of Asian adults say being Hispanic or Asian , respectively , is extremely or very important to their identity . Only 15 % of white adults see race as a central piece of their identity . The share of black adults who say their race is central to their identity varies by age – adults younger than 30 deem race a less important part of their identity than do their older counterparts .
Polygamy is most often found in sub-Saharan Africa , where 11 % of the population lives in arrangements that include more than one spouse . Polygamy is widespread in a cluster of countries in West and Central Africa , including Burkina Faso , ( 36 % ) , Mali ( 34 % ) and Nigeria ( 28 % ) . In these countries , polygamy is legal , at least to some extent . Muslims in Africa are more likely than Christians to live in this type of arrangement ( 25 % vs. 3 % ) , but in some countries , the practice also is widespread among adherents of folk religions and people who do not identify with a religion . For example , in Burkina Faso , 45 % of people who practice folk religions , 40 % of Muslims and 24 % of Christians live in polygamous households . Chad is the only country in this analysis where Christians ( 21 % ) are more likely than Muslims ( 10 % ) to live in this type of arrangement . Religion often plays a role in how polygamy is governed and practiced within a single country . In Nigeria , for example , polygamous marriage is not allowed at the federal level , but the prohibition only applies to civil marriages . Twelve northern , Muslim-majority states do recognize these unions as Islamic or customary marriages . In India , Muslim men are allowed to marry multiple women , while men of other groups are not . However , in countries where polygamy is common , it often is practiced by people of all faiths . That 's the case in Gambia , Niger , Mali , Chad and Burkina Faso , where at least one-in-ten people in every religious group measured live in households that include husbands with more than one spouse .
Overall , about as many followed news about the nation 's economy as the situation in Ukraine very closely ( 28 % Ukraine , 27 % economy ) . Nearly as many closely tracked news about the rollout of the 2010 health care law ( 23 % ) . By comparison , 19 % very closely followed news a week earlier ( Feb. 27-Mar . 2 ) about violence in Ukraine and the new government there . News interest last week about Russian troops in Crimea was highest among those with higher education levels . Roughly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) college graduates very closely followed the story , compared with about three-in-ten people ( 29 % ) with some college education and two-in-ten ( 20 % ) with a high school degree or less .
Despite their relatively secular worldview , Lebanese Muslims are among the most supportive of terrorist acts in the name of Islam . In 2005 , 39 % said suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians are often or sometimes justified in order to defend Islam from its enemies . Only Jordan , at 57 % , registered more support for suicide attacks .1 In Morocco , Turkey , and Indonesia , fewer than one-in-five Muslims believe such attacks can often or sometimes be justified .
Awareness is also widespread in Germany ( 72 % a lot or a little ) , Australia ( 66 % ) , and Indonesia ( 66 % ) . And majorities in Nigeria , Britain , Spain , France , Russia and India are familiar with this issue . Few , however , in Latin America know about the recalls — just 27 % of Brazilians , 26 % of Mexicans and 14 % in Argentina have heard something about this . Awareness is also low in Pakistan ( 17 % ) .
10 YouTube recommendations push users toward progressively longer videos . Around eight-in-ten adult YouTube users in the U.S. ( 81 % ) said in the 2018 survey that they at least occasionally watch the videos suggested by the platform 's recommendation algorithm . In a study of the algorithm itself , we found that YouTube recommends progressively longer videos – at least when it lacks information about the viewer needed for more personalized recommendations . After a chain of just four video recommendations , the algorithm was likely to suggest a video more than five minutes longer than the one it originally started on .
In recent days , however , the tone of the conversation has shifted a bit . The first two days after the video was online , when attention on Twitter was relatively modest , 77 % of the Twitter conversation was supportive compared with only 7 % that was skeptical or negative . Since March 7 , when the response picked up dramatically , the percentage of tweets reflecting skepticism or criticism rose to 17 % . Some of the positive responses came from notable celebrities whose posts were widely retweeted .
By roughly the same margin ( 37 % to 30 % ) , more say that , looking ahead , the health care law will have a mostly negative than a mostly positive personal impact , while 30 % say it will not have much of an effect . This is little changed over the last few years .
In much of Eastern Europe , there is now greater acceptance of post-communist political changes compared with Pulse of Europe surveys conducted by the then-Times Mirror Center for the People & the Press in 1991 , as the Soviet Union was collapsing . Even so , the legacy of communism is apparent in the attitudes of many Eastern European publics . Only about half of those in Ukraine and Russia approve of the political changes that have occurred since the collapse of the Soviet Union .
At the same time , there are some positive interactions , too . About a quarter of Israeli Muslims ( 26 % ) say a Jewish person has expressed sympathy toward them because of their religious identity within the past year .
As the economy has soured , many Latinos are adjusting their economic behaviors . More than seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) report that they have cut back spending on eating out . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say they planned to curtail holiday spending . More than one-fourth ( 28 % ) report that they helped a family member or friend with a loan . The National Survey of Latinos 2008 , Economics and Politics , focuses on Hispanic adults ' views of the state of the economy , their own personal finances and housing market conditions . It also asks about the sending of remittances in the past year and how Latinos have changed their economic behaviors in the economic downturn . The survey was conducted from November 11 through November 30 , 2008 , among a randomly selected , nationally representative sample of 1,540 Hispanic adults . The survey was conducted in both English and Spanish . The margin of error for the full sample is plus or minus 3.0 percentage points .
As the GOP primary winds down , the party base is getting behind Mitt Romney . Nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Republican and Republican-leaning voters now say that the party will unite solidly behind Romney as the nominee , up from 57 % in February . This matches the 64 % who said the party would unite behind McCain at a comparable point four years ago .
As the two largest Spanish-language television networks in the U.S. , Univision and Telemundo are key providers of news for Spanish speakers . Univision 's average audience – measured as the average number of TVs tuned to a program throughout a period of time – declined for all three national time slots studied : a 12 % decline for the evening news time slot ( 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. ) , to an average audience of about 1 million ; a 14 % decline in late night news ( 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. ) ; and an 11 % decline for the morning news time slot ( 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. ) . Telemundo 's audience , on the other hand , increased by 7 % in the evening news time slot , to an audience of about 700 , ooo , and remained roughly steady at just under 400,000 for late night news .
Approval of Turnbull 's handling of world affairs comes at a time when Australians are ambivalent about global engagement : About half say that Australia should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their own , while 45 % say that Australia should help other countries . When asked whether Australia should deal with its own problems and let other countries fend for themselves or help other countries deal with their problems , the public is almost evenly split . About half ( 49 % ) prefer to focus on their own country 's problems , while 45 % say they want to help other countries . Australian sentiment is similar to that in the UK ( where 43 % say to help other countries ) , and a slightly larger share favors global engagement than in the U.S. ( 37 % help others ) .
Among Greek-language tweets studied , 40 % of the conversation included positive expressions about the EU proposals on the referendum calling for a financial bailout that would likely include new austerity measures , while 33 % was negative and 27 % was neutral . The stakes are high and yet also still unclear – a `` no '' vote could lead to a possible exit from the eurozone or a fresh start for the negotiations .
The new survey , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 among 1,503 adults , finds that 29 % say the tax law will have a mostly positive effect on them and their families , while nearly as many ( 27 % ) say its effect will be mostly negative . A third say the law will not have much of a personal impact . Opinions also are divided about the tax law 's impact on the country as a whole : 35 % say the law will have a mostly positive effect on the country , 40 % a mostly negative effect and 15 % say it will have little effect .
Among those who say almost everyone in their family shares their political views ( 22 % of the public ) , an overwhelming share ( 82 % ) says their family is comfortable talking about politics . Yet the share of adults who say their family is OK with political discussions decreases among those who say there is less agreement in their family on politics .
Looking only at women nearing the end of their childbearing years , 9 % report that they have ever personally undergone a fertility treatment or had a spouse or partner do so , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of National Center for Health Statistics data . ( An additional 5 % of these women report that they or their partner sought medical advice or testing regarding fertility , but did not undergo any additional treatments . )
There has been virtually no change among Americans . Just as in 2019 , a little over four-in-ten Americans say it is more important to have a close relationship with Germany ( 43 % ) , while nearly the same share ( 44 % ) prioritize relations with China .
Revenue from retransmission fees – the fees paid by cable and satellite systems to carry local channels – has been increasing rapidly in the past decade , according to estimates from Kagan , a media research group in S & P Global Market Intelligence . In 2018 , retransmission revenue reached almost $ 10.2 billion , up from $ 9.4 billion in 2017 ; Kagan projects that this figure will reach $ 12.2 billion by 2023 .
About half each say health care costs ( 53 % ) and the price of food and consumer goods ( 48 % ) have a major impact . By contrast , just 22 % say the federal budget deficit affects their finances a lot and 21 % say the same about `` how the stock market is doing . ''
Another set of questions focused on the kinds of `` data exhaust '' that is generated as a result of everyday forms of online communications , web surfing and application use . Respondents were asked how much they cared `` that only you and those you authorize should have access '' to certain kinds of behavioral data and communications content and there was notable variance in the answers . The content of email messages and the people with whom one communicates via email are considerably more sensitive pieces of information when compared with other online activities and associated data trails .
When asked about their second choices for the Democratic nomination , Democrats are roughly evenly divided between Elizabeth Warren ( 21 % ) and Kamala Harris ( 19 % ) . This strong second choice showing by Warren and Harris is due in large part to Warren and Harris supporters being more likely to name the other ( 39 % of Warren 's supporters named Harris as their second choice and 31 % of Harris supporters named Warren ) .
The annual inflow of unauthorized immigrants to the United States was nearly two-thirds smaller in the March 2007 to March 2009 period than it had been from March 2000 to March 2005 , according to new estimates by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center .
While the conflict continues , many in Turkey , Jordan and Lebanon want their country to accept fewer refugees . As of mid-2016 , these countries and other neighboring nations have taken in about 4.8 million Syrian refugees . Only 8 % in Jordan and 4 % in Lebanon and Turkey support accepting more refugees from Syria . A majority in Jordan wants its country to accept fewer Syrian refugees and around one-quarter ( 23 % ) say their country should not accept any refugees ( a volunteered category ) . However , Syrians already living in Jordan have very different views . A large majority of them say the country should accept more refugees from Syria and 0 % say that Jordan should stop accepting refugees all together . In Lebanon , similar numbers say their country should either accept fewer refugees ( 40 % ) or none at all ( 42 % ) . Christians are more likely than Shia or Sunni Muslims to say that Lebanon should not accept any refugees from Syria .
Americans are concerned about the economic threat from China , and their top worries about China revolve around economic issues . When respondents to a 2012 Pew Research Center/Carnegie Endowment for International Peace survey were asked to rate potential concerns about China , the top three issues were all economic : 78 % described the large amount of U.S. debt held by China as a very serious problem , 71 % said this about job losses to China , and 61 % felt this way about the trade deficit with China . Cyberattacks , China 's impact on the environment , its growing military power , and its human rights policies were all rated lower , although these issues generated strong concerns among many as well .
This report and accompanying interactive is based on a longitudinal analysis of the primary and general election preferences of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters in Pew Research Center 's nationally representative American Trends Panel . This approach provides the ability to examine voters ' choices at an individual level over the course of six surveys conducted throughout 2015 and 2016 . For more detail , see Methodology used in this report . And for a similar look at the GOP nomination contest , see `` For GOP Voters , a Winding Path to a Trump Nomination . ''
Americans overwhelmingly say the nation 's immigration policy is in need of sweeping changes . Overall , 75 % say immigration policy needs at least major changes , with 35 % saying it needs to be `` completely rebuilt '' —among the highest of seven policy areas tested .
Why public views on crime have grown more dire is unclear , though many blame it on the nature of news coverage , reality TV and political rhetoric . Whatever the cause , this trend is not without consequence . Today , those who say that crime is rising are the most opposed to gun control : Just 45 % want to see gun laws made more strict , compared with 53 % of those who see crime rates as unchanged or dropping . And when we analyze the numbers , this trend is especially pronounced among whites . Support for gun control has dropped most dramatically among whites who see crime on the rise – just 37 % of those who now say crime is increasing say they favor stricter gun control , compared with 78 % who said the same in 1990 .
Republicans who disapprove of the health care law are divided on whether GOP congressional leaders should modify the health care law or get rid of it entirely . Nearly equal shares say Republican leaders in Congress should focus their efforts on modifying the law ( 42 % ) and focus on getting rid of it entirely ( 44 % ) .
Federal policy defines `` Hispanic '' not as a race , but as an ethnicity . And it prescribes that Hispanics can in fact be of any race . But these census findings suggest that standard U.S. racial categories might either be confusing or not provide relevant options for Hispanics to describe their racial identity . They also raise an important question long pondered by social scientists and policymakers : Do Hispanics consider their Hispanic background to be part of their racial background , their ethnic background or both ? A new Pew Research Center survey of multiracial Americans finds that , for two-thirds of Hispanics , their Hispanic background is a part of their racial background – not something separate . This suggests that Hispanics have a unique view of race that does n't necessarily fit within the official U.S. definitions .
About one-in-five followed news about the new UN sanctions on Iran ( 19 % ) very closely , and 2 % name this as their top story . News about the sanctions approved last week in response to Iran 's nuclear program made up 3 % of newshole , according to PEJ .
During the fall campaign season , we asked panelists – voters and non-voters alike – which candidate they preferred for Congress . Support for Republican candidates was strongly associated with financial security : among the most secure group , 49 % favored or leaned to the Republican candidate , compared with just 17 % among the least secure group .
Three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) followed campaign news very closely and an equal number called the race their most closely followed news story of the week . Democrats were slightly more likely than Republicans to have followed campaign news very closely ( 39 % -31 % ) . Overall interest in campaign news is down somewhat from February and early March . The percentage of Americans following the campaign very closely had been at or near 40 % since early February and has started to slip over the past two weeks . Despite receiving a significantly smaller share of media coverage , the condition of the U.S. economy is of at least as much interest to the American public . More than four-in-ten followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely and 28 % listed economic news as their most closely followed story . Republicans and Democrats followed the news in equal numbers , while those earning under $ 30,000 a year were less likely than higher earners to have followed the story very closely .
In the 2018 general election , around six-in-ten U.S. poll workers ( 58 % ) were ages 61 and older , including roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) who were over 70 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data from that year 's Election Administration and Voting Survey ( EAVS ) , a biennial study of states ' administration of federal elections . ( This data does not include all states ; for more information about the methodology and limitations of this data , see `` How we did this . '' )
Both younger and older veterans gave higher approval ratings for Trump than did younger and older adults overall . Nearly half of veterans ages 18 to 49 ( 46 % ) approved of Trump 's job performance , compared with only 31 % of all adults younger than 50 . Among those 50 and older , nearly six-in-ten veterans ( 58 % ) supported Trump , while about half of all older adults ( 49 % ) said the same .
Social media helps teens feel more connected to their friends ' feelings and daily lives , and also offers teens a place to receive support from others during challenging times . But even as social media connects teens to friends ' feelings and experiences , the sharing that occurs on these platforms can have negative consequences . Sharing can veer into oversharing . Teens can learn about events and activities to which they were n't invited , and the highly curated lives of teens ' social media connections can lead them to make negative comparisons with their own lives :
When it comes to issues , 41 % of likely Iowa Democratic voters view Clinton as the candidate best able to improve the health care system , roughly double the number who cite Obama ( 21 % ) or Edwards ( 20 % ) . Iowa voters are most divided when it comes to who can do the best to improve job opportunities for Americans — 28 % cite Clinton , 26 % Obama , and 19 % Edwards . Clinton 's weakest issue is immigration . Just 17 % of Iowa Democrats name her as the candidate best able to deal with immigration . Both Obama ( 23 % ) and Bill Richardson ( 19 % ) are cited more often .
Hispanic registered voters support Democrat Barack Obama for president over Republican John McCain by 66 % to 23 % , according to a nationwide survey of 2,015 Latinos conducted by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center , from June 9 through July 13 , 2008 . The presumptive Democratic nominee 's strong showing in this survey represents a sharp reversal in his fortunes from the primaries , when Obama lost the Latino vote to Hillary Clinton by a nearly two-to-one ratio , giving rise to speculation in some quarters that Hispanics were disinclined to vote for a black candidate .
White and coloured South Africans are more pessimistic about the country 's economic situation today than in the past . However , answers to this question vary widely by race . Similar shares of coloured and white South Africans say the financial situation has worsened ( 45 % and 46 % , respectively ) , while only 29 % of black South Africans express this sentiment .
For independents , by contrast , negative motives are cited most frequently among the reasons for leaning toward a party . Among Republican-leaning independents , 55 % say a major reason for leaning toward the GOP is that Democratic policies are harmful to the country . Just 30 % cite the positive effects of Republican policies .
As the standoff between the Department of Justice and Apple Inc. continues over an iPhone used by one of the suspects in the San Bernardino terrorist attacks , 51 % say Apple should unlock the iPhone to assist the ongoing FBI investigation . Fewer Americans ( 38 % ) say Apple should not unlock the phone to ensure the security of its other users ' information ; 11 % do not offer an opinion on the question .
Three-in-ten U.S. adults say they have ever used a dating site or app , but this varies significantly by age and sexual orientation . While 48 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say have ever used a dating site or app , the share is 38 % among those ages 30 to 49 and even lower for those 50 and older ( 16 % ) . At the same time , personal experiences with online dating greatly differ by sexual orientation . Lesbian , gay or bisexual ( LGB ) adults are roughly twice as likely as those who are straight to say they ever used a dating platform ( 55 % vs. 28 % ) . A small share of Americans say they have been in a committed relationship with or married someone they met through a dating site or app . About one-in-ten U.S. adults say this ( 12 % ) , though these shares are higher among LGB adults , as well as those ages 18 to 49 .
Finally , this survey documents a pronounced shift in how Americans engage with one of the oldest elements of the modern economy : physical currency . Today nearly one-quarter ( 24 % ) of Americans indicate that none of the purchases they make in a typical week involve cash . And an even larger share – 39 % – indicates that they do n't really worry about having cash on hand , since there are so many other ways of paying for things these days . Nonwhites , low-income Americans and those 50 and older are especially likely to rely on cash as a payment method . Among the other findings of this national survey of 4,787 U.S. adults conducted from Nov. 24 to Dec. 21 , 2015 :
Around the world , publics are divided about the direction of American power : Across the 25 nations surveyed , a median of 31 % say the U.S. plays a more important role in the world today than it did ten years ago ; 25 % say it plays a less important role ; and 35 % believe the U.S. is as important as it was a decade ago . In contrast , views about Chinese power are clear : A median of 70 % say China 's role on the world stage has grown over the past 10 years . Still , by a slim margin , more people name the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power ( a median of 39 % say the U.S. , 34 % say China ) . And despite the unease many feel about the U.S. at the moment , the idea of a U.S.-led world order is still attractive to most . When asked which would be better for the world , having China or the U.S. as the top global power , people in nearly every country tend to select the U.S. , and this is particularly common among some of China 's Asia-Pacific neighbors , such as Japan , the Philippines , South Korea and Australia .
About three-in-ten each say they very closely followed news about recent ups and downs in the stock market ( 32 % ) and S & P credit rating downgrade ( 31 % ) . Partisans are about equally likely to say they followed both stories very closely .
By 55 % to 35 % , Hispanics say that they think being able to live and work in the United States legally without the threat of deportation is more important for unauthorized immigrants than a pathway to citizenship . Asian Americans hold a similar view , albeit by a smaller margin—49 % to 44 % .
The only country in the region where a clear majority says the U.S. takes their interests into account a great deal or fair amount is the Philippines ( 85 % ) . About half ( 52 % ) of Indonesians share that view . A big majority in Australia ( 71 % ) , which was one of the countries that was part of the administration 's `` pivot '' strategy , says the U.S. does not take its interests into account much or at all while more than half of publics in South Korea ( 62 % ) , Japan ( 59 % ) and Pakistan ( 53 % ) share that view . Opinion is divided in Malaysia where the public says the U.S. does not consider its interests much or at all by a 44 % to 38 % margin . The U.S. does better in China itself where 49 % says the U.S. considers their country 's interest a great deal or fair amount while 38 % hold that opposite view .
Women , blacks , Asians and Hispanics have built up substantial positions as business owners in several sectors of the U.S. economy . But based on revenue , those businesses are on average considerably smaller than white- or male-owned firms , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of recently released data from the U.S. Census Bureau . Overall , men owned more than half of the nation 's 27.6 million firms in 2012 , according to preliminary results from the Survey of Business Owners , and women owned more than 9.9 million businesses , about 36 % of the total . The remaining 10 % of firms were either jointly owned by men and women or could not be categorized by gender because they were publicly traded companies or have large , diverse ownership groups .
Part of the decline over the past year is linked to how the U.S. had handled the coronavirus pandemic . Across the 13 nations surveyed , a median of just 15 % say the U.S. has done a good job of dealing with the outbreak . In contrast , most say the World Health Organization ( WHO ) and European Union have done a good job , and in nearly all nations people give their own country positive marks for dealing with the crisis ( the U.S. and UK are notable exceptions ) . Relatively few think China has handled the pandemic well , although it still receives considerably better reviews than the U.S. response .
Scientists and the American public are often far apart when it comes to views about science-related issues . Members of the science community , for example , are much more likely to say genetically modified foods and foods grown with pesticides are safe to eat , and that climate change is mostly due to human activity , according to our recent survey of U.S.-based members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science .
Similarly , knowledge of basic scientific concepts differs greatly across questions . While most Americans ( 78 % ) know that the basic function of red blood cells is to carry oxygen to all parts of the body , just 20 % could identify nitrogen as the gas that makes up most of the atmosphere .
Americans are becoming less reliant on physical currency . Roughly three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 29 % ) say they make no purchases using cash during a typical week , up slightly from 24 % in 2015 . And the share who say that all or almost all of their weekly purchases are made using cash has modestly decreased , from 24 % in 2015 to 18 % today , according to a new Pew Research Center survey that comes as some businesses experiment with becoming cashless establishments .
A recent Pew Research Center survey of LGBT Americans found that among LGBT adults , gay men ( 72 % ) are the most likely to have ever attended a pride event , followed by lesbians ( 61 % ) and bisexuals ( 33 % ) . When it comes to more recent attendance , roughly equal shares of gay men ( 29 % ) and lesbians ( 23 % ) had attended a pride event in the 12 months prior to the survey , compared with just 9 % of bisexuals . The survey also found that gay pride events are more likely to be attended by those who say their sexual orientation or gender identity is `` extremely '' or `` very '' important to their overall identity ( 66 % ) , than those who view their sexual orientation as less important to their overall identity ( 45 % ) . Our survey was conducted from April 11 - 29 , 2013 , prior to the beginning of this year 's LGBT pride month .
G20 leaders will also focus this year on climate change , sustainable energy and plastic litter in the ocean . This focus broadly matches public concerns about climate change in the nations surveyed by the Center . In fact , in all but one of the G20 countries surveyed – Russia – majorities say global climate change is a major threat to their nation . South Koreans are the most concerned , with 86 % considering it a major threat . At the other end of the spectrum , 43 % of Russians see global climate change as a major threat .
Majorities in both major parties believe censorship is likely occurring , but this belief is especially common – and growing – among Republicans . Nine-in-ten Republicans and independents who lean toward the Republican Party say it 's at least somewhat likely that social media platforms censor political viewpoints they find objectionable , up slightly from 85 % in 2018 , when the Center last asked this question .
The American public is wary of technologies that could `` enhance '' human abilities . Majorities of U.S. adults say they would be `` very '' or `` somewhat '' worried about gene editing ( 68 % ) , brain chips ( 69 % ) and synthetic blood ( 63 % ) , while no more than half say they would be enthusiastic about each of these developments . Some people say they would be both enthusiastic and worried , but , overall , concern outweighs excitement . The biggest resistance is toward technologies that would result in abilities `` far above that of any human known to date '' or in permanent changes .
A growing number of people around the globe see China 's economy as the most powerful in the world . Looking at the 20 countries surveyed in each of the last three years , China 's economic star keeps rising . The median number naming China as the world 's leading economy has risen from 20 % to 31 % . Meanwhile , the percentage naming the U.S. has dropped from 50 % to 43 % . The publics of the countries surveyed vary in their views of China 's growing economic clout . In the West , opinion is divided in Britain , while majorities in Germany , France and Spain and a plurality in the U.S. see China 's economic strength as a bad thing for their country .
There is a similar pattern in views of agreement with Trump on issues among Republican subgroups . While majorities of Republicans across demographic and educational categories agree with Trump on many or nearly all ( or all ) issues , half or more of self-described conservatives ( 50 % ) and those 65 and older ( 54 % ) say they agree with Trump on all or nearly all issues . That is higher than the shares among other groups of Republicans . For example , among Republicans under age 30 , just 21 % say they agree with Trump on all or nearly all of the important issues facing the country .
On the negative side , half or more in 10 countries think Americans are arrogant and many say they are greedy . And half or more in Australia , Greece , the UK , Spain , Canada and China say Americans are violent .
Hispanics ' experience with discrimination or being treated unfairly varies greatly by age . Among Hispanics ages 18 to 29 , 65 % say they have experienced discrimination or unfair treatment because of their race or ethnicity . By comparison , only 35 % of Hispanics 50 and older say the same – a 30-percentage-point gap . In addition , Hispanics born in the U.S. ( 62 % ) are more likely than immigrants ( 41 % ) to say they have experienced discrimination or unfair treatment . There are also differences by race . For example , 56 % of nonwhite Hispanics say this has happened at some point in their lives , a higher share than that among white Hispanics ( 41 % ) .
Fathers today get higher grades than mothers for their performance , especially from women . Overall , 47 % of Americans say fathers of children under the age of 18 are now doing a worse job as parents than fathers did 20 or 30 years ago ; this compares with 56 % who say mothers are doing a worse job . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) say today 's fathers are doing a better job compared with fathers a generation ago ; far fewer ( 9 % ) say that today 's mothers are doing a better job than their predecessors 20 or 30 years ago .
Fully 84 % of AAAS scientists read journal articles outside of their primary fields or scientific discipline . In addition , 79 % say they attend professional meetings , workshops and lectures .
YouTube and Facebook are the most-widely used online platforms , and its user base is most broadly representative of the population as a whole . Smaller shares of Americans use sites such as Twitter , Pinterest , Instagram and LinkedIn .
Americans prefer to keep certain information about themselves outside the purview of online searches , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in June 2019 . Given the option , 74 % of U.S. adults say it is more important to be able to `` keep things about themselves from being searchable online , '' while 23 % say it is more important to be able to `` discover potentially useful information about others . ''
As people have gained more access to computers and cell phones , internet and email usage have also increased . A median of 45 % across the 18 countries for which 2007 trends are available now say they use the internet at least occasionally ; three years ago , when the Pew Global Attitudes Project first asked this question , a median of 35 % said that was the case . The median percentage that sends or receives email at least occasionally has also risen , although not as steeply , from 29 % in 2007 to 34 % in 2010 .
Still , even among those who like right-wing parties , confidence in Trump is limited , and there is no Western European country in which a majority of right-wing party supporters offer a positive assessment of the American president 's leadership in world affairs . Trump gets more negative ratings globally than Merkel , Xi or Putin . German Chancellor Angela Merkel is the only world leader included in the survey who receives more positive than negative reviews . Across the 37 nations polled , a median of 42 % express confidence in her , while 31 % say they lack confidence . Ratings for Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin are mostly negative , and Trump receives even more unfavorable assessments than both of them .
Taking a very early look ahead to November 's general election , the survey also asked registered voters across the political spectrum to predict their vote – whether it would be for Donald Trump or the yet-to-be-determined Democratic nominee . Similar to other recent elections , most white evangelical Protestants say they will definitely ( 59 % ) or probably ( 17 % ) vote for Trump , and just 14 % say they will probably or definitely vote for the Democrat . White Protestant voters who do not identify as born again or evangelical also are more likely than not to say they will vote for Trump in November .
Moreover , digital technology has become so central to teens ' lives that a significant share of parents now employ a new tool to enforce family rules : `` digitally grounding '' misbehaving kids . Some 65 % of parents have taken their teen 's cellphone or internet privileges away as a punishment . But restrictions to screen time are not always consequences of bad behavior , parents often have rules in place about how often and when their teen can go online . Some 55 % of parents say they limit the amount of time or times of day their teen can be online .
Opinions of Cuba vary sharply by ideological self-identification in Venezuela . Those Venezuelans who place themselves on the left side of the ideological spectrum are much more likely to have a favorable view of Cuba ( 79 % ) than those who place themselves on the right side of the spectrum ( 25 % ) .
There is a 25-percentage-point gender gap among younger Democrats over the presence of obstacles making it harder for women to get ahead ( 72 % of Democratic women ages 18 to 34 say this vs. 47 % of younger Democratic men ) . Gender differences are more modest among older Democrats .
Americans ' views vary substantially by race and ethnicity . While most Black ( 75 % ) , Asian ( 70 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 66 % ) say it is at least somewhat important that companies and organizations release statements about political or social issues , this share falls to 42 % among white adults .
Mail-in voting – often called absentee voting or vote-by-mail – has slowly but steadily gained in popularity in the United States . And it received a big boost this year as primary season ran head-on into the novel coronavirus pandemic . Mail-in ballots accounted for just over half of this year 's primary votes cast in the 37 states ( plus the District of Columbia ) for which data is available . That was roughly double the mail-in share of the vote in those same jurisdictions in the 2018 and 2016 general elections .
According to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted in association with the Bertelsmann Foundation , a majority of Germans ( 57 % ) believe it is more important for Germany to have strong ties with the United States than with Russia . Just 15 % prefer strong ties with Russia , and another 21 % volunteer that it is best to have an equally close relationship with both .
When Pew Research Center began tracking social media adoption in 2005 , just 5 % of American adults used at least one of these platforms . By 2011 that share had risen to half of all Americans , and today 72 % of the public uses some type of social media .
While the presence of sworn officers at secondary schools has become more common over the past decade , many schools report that these officers were only present at specific times rather than throughout the entire school day , according to the report ( data are for the 2015 - 16 school year , the most recent available ) . Secondary schools include middle and high schools , as well as combined schools .
Canadians are more concerned than their American counterparts on a number of key issues related to climate change . For example , in Pew Research Center 's spring 2015 survey of 40 nations , 84 % of Canadians supported an international agreement to limit their country 's greenhouse gas emissions , compared with 69 % of Americans . This agreement was subsequently adopted at the Paris COP21 conference , but whether the United States will enact such an accord remains in question . A majority ( 56 % ) of Canadians say climate change is harming people now , while only 41 % of Americans agree . On most of the questions presented to both Canadians and Americans on climate change , Canadians were more concerned and closer to the global 40-country median than Americans , who were generally less concerned than others around the world .
Among the 50.7 million Hispanics in the United States , nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) , or 33 million , self-identify as being of Mexican origin , according to tabulations of the 2010 American Community Survey ( ACS ) by the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center . No other Hispanic subgroup rivals the size of the Mexican-origin population . Puerto Ricans , the nation 's second largest Hispanic origin group , make up just 9 % of the total Hispanic population in the 50 states and the District of Columbia .1
When asked about a number of issues that might cause them to lose their current jobs , just 11 % of workers are at least somewhat concerned that they might lose their jobs because their employer replaces human workers with machines or computer programs . On the other hand , roughly one-in-five express concern that they might lose their jobs because their employer finds other ( human ) workers to perform their jobs for less money or because their overall industry workforce is shrinking . The most prominent concern is poor management by their own employer , albeit by a narrow margin , among the five evaluated in this survey : Workers whose jobs involve primarily manual or physical labor2 express heightened concern about all of these potential employment threats , especially when it comes to replacement by robots or other machines . Fully 17 % of these workers are at least somewhat concerned about the threat from workforce automation , with 11 % indicating that they are `` very concerned . '' By contrast , just 5 % of workers whose jobs do not involve manual labor express some level of concern about the threat of workforce automation .
A majority of Americans ( 62 % ) say that when thinking about the fundamental design and structure of government , significant changes are needed to make it work for current times ; 37 % say the design and structure of government serves the country well and does not need significant changes . These overall opinions have changed little since 2018 , but Republicans and Democrats have moved in opposing directions . In 2018 , half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents said significant changes to American government were needed ; today , that share has dropped to 41 % . A majority ( 57 % ) now says no significant changes are needed . At the same time , Democrats have grown more likely to say significant changes are needed . In 2018 , 68 % of Democrats said substantial change was necessary . Today , 79 % of Democrats say changes are needed to make government work for current times . Though partisanship is the biggest factor in views on whether the fundamental design and structure of American government needs significant changes , there are similar demographic divisions within each partisan coalition – especially among Republicans .
Other survey measures underscore the differences between police work and the typical job . For starters , these surveys suggest police view their jobs as more dangerous : Police officers are three times as likely as workers overall to say they nearly always or often have serious concerns about their physical safety while on the job ( 42 % vs. 14 % ) .
Nearly three-quarters of Americans have used a shared , collaborative or on-demand online service . Pew Research Center asked American adults whether or not they have used 11 different services tied to the new digital economy , and fully 72 % say they have used at least one of them .
A new Pew Research Center analysis estimates that around one-in-five adult Twitter users in the U.S. ( 19 % ) follow Trump 's personal account on the platform , @ realDonaldTrump . Trump 's immediate predecessor , Barack Obama ( @ BarackObama ) , is followed by 26 % of U.S. adult Twitter users . Bill Clinton is the only other former president with a public Twitter account , followed by 6 % of adult users . ( George W. Bush has a private account and former president Jimmy Carter does not have a personal Twitter account . )
When Pew Research Center began systematically tracking Americans ' internet usage in early 2000 , about half of all adults were already online . Today , nine-in-ten American adults use the internet .
While 32 % of mothers with children under age 18 say they would prefer to work full time , only 16 % of all adults say having a mother who works full time is ideal for a young child .
The new survey also finds that social media users generally do not find common ground as a result of online discussions about politics . Roughly seven-in-ten users ( 72 % ) say that discussing politics on social media with people they disagree with usually leads them to find out they have `` less in common politically '' than they expected , while 22 % report finding out they have `` more in common politically '' than previously thought .
2 Mobile is becoming a preferred device for digital news . The portion of Americans who ever get news on a mobile device has gone up from 54 % in 2013 to 72 % today . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans get news on both desktop/laptop and mobile , but more of those prefer mobile ( 56 % ) than desktop ( 42 % ) . 3 Long-form journalism has a place in today 's mobile-centric society . Cellphone users spend more time on average with long-form news articles than with short-form . In fact , the total engaged time with articles 1,000 words or longer averages about twice that of the engaged time with short-form stories : 123 seconds compared with 57 . And on average , long-form content attracts about the same number of visitors as short-form content .
Despite its reputation for la dolce vita , when it comes to rating their current lives and looking to the future , Italians are generally gloomier than their fellow Europeans , as well as Americans and Canadians . For example , when asked to place themselves on a `` ladder of life , '' where zero represents the worst possible life and 10 the best possible life , fewer than half of Italians ( 48 % ) rate their life at least a seven . On the other hand , in Sweden ( 72 % ) , Canada ( 71 % ) , Spain ( 66 % ) , and the United States ( 65 % ) , more than six-in-ten respondents place themselves on the top rungs of the ladder .
Six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Hispanics say they have a great deal or a fair amount of confidence that the police in their local communities will do a good job enforcing the law , compared with 78 % of whites and 55 % of blacks . Just under half ( 46 % ) of Hispanics say they have confidence that police officers will not use excessive force on suspects , compared with 73 % of whites and 38 % of blacks . Similarly , just under half of Hispanics say they are confident that police officers will treat Hispanics fairly ( 45 % ) and that courts will treat Hispanics fairly ( 49 % ) . In comparison , 74 % of whites and 37 % of blacks say they have confidence that the police will treat blacks and whites equally ( Pew Social & Demographic Trends , 2007 ) .
The share of Americans who say they have broadband service at home has also risen slightly over the past year – from 65 % in early 2018 to 73 % today . But compared with smartphone ownership , there are more pronounced variations in broadband adoption across demographic groups . For example , 92 % of adults from households earning $ 75,000 or more a year say they have broadband internet at home , but that share falls to 56 % among those whose annual household income falls below $ 30,000 . That 36-point gap in broadband adoption between the highest- and lowest-income groups is substantially larger than the 24-point gap in smartphone ownership between these groups . Educational differences follow a nearly identical pattern .
Fewer than four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners say the Republican Party is doing a good job representing their views on the issues of government spending ( 35 % ) , illegal immigration ( 34 % ) and same-sex marriage ( 29 % ) . On all three issues , majorities of Republicans say their party is not doing a good job representing their views . And there is little difference in these ratings between conservative Republicans and moderate and liberal Republicans .
Most say Trump is arrogant , intolerant and dangerous , but a majority also sees him as a strong leader . Survey respondents were read a list of positive and negative characteristics and asked whether each one describes Trump . Around the globe , people tend to associate the American leader with all of the negative characteristics tested : Most say he is arrogant , intolerant and dangerous , while relatively few think of him as well-qualified or as someone who cares about ordinary people . Describing Trump as charismatic is more common , though global publics on balance do not think of him as charismatic , either . They do , however , see Trump as a strong leader – a median of 55 % across the nations polled describe him this way .
Regardless of degree of concern about the issue of GM foods , more Americans say that scientists should play a major role in policy decisions on GM foods than say the same about food industry leaders ( 60 % vs. 42 % ) . Some 57 % of Americans think the general public should have a major say in policies related to GM foods as well .
Likewise , the percentage annual growth in construction employment measured on a quarterly basis was lower in the first quarter of 2007 than it had been in the three previous years ( Figure 8 ) . From the beginning of 2004 through the end of 2006 , the employment of foreign-born Latinos in the construction industry increased by an average of 17.4 % . In the first quarter of 2007 , it was up 10.9 % compared to the first quarter of 2006 . That is indicative of substantial ongoing growth of employment for immigrant Latinos in the construction industry but at a somewhat slower rate than in the previous three years .
Republicans generally have a positive view of potential increases in tariffs on steel and aluminum imports . About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they would be good for the country , while just 26 % say such tariff increases would be bad for the country . Democratic opinion is the opposite : Only 22 % of Democrats think increasing steel and aluminum tariffs would be good for the U.S. , while 63 % say they would be bad for the country . The partisan gap in views of tariffs is substantially wider among those who have heard `` a lot '' about the proposals than those who have not : Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Republicans who have heard a lot about the proposed tariffs say they will be a good thing for the country , compared with just 8 % of Democrats who have heard a lot about them .
We found that a big majority of Americans ( 87 % ) say they know someone who is Catholic – perhaps not surprising , given that as of 2012 , 22 % of U.S. adults were Catholic . Somewhat fewer Americans ( 70 % ) say they know an evangelical Christian , even though nearly a third of U.S. adults ( 32 % ) describe themselves as born-again or evangelical Christians . The percentage of Americans who know members of smaller religious groups varies widely , with little apparent relation to the actual size of the group . For example , Muslims , Buddhists and Hindus each comprise about 1 % or less of the U.S. population , but many more Americans say they know a Muslim ( 38 % ) than a Buddhist ( 23 % ) or a Hindu ( 22 % ) .
With more than five months to go before the first votes are cast in the 2020 presidential election , a majority of Democratic voters who express a preference for one of the candidates ( 63 % ) say they feel excited about several of the candidates currently vying for the party 's nomination . Far fewer ( 35 % ) say they are enthused only by their first choice for the nomination .
An overwhelming majority of Americans said extramarital affairs were morally unacceptable . But fewer Americans said that abortion was unacceptable ( 49 % ) , with 17 % saying abortion was morally acceptable and 23 % saying it was not a moral issue . Meanwhile , less than four-in-ten Americans are strongly opposed to homosexuality ( 37 % unacceptable ) , premarital sex ( 30 % ) , gambling ( 24 % ) , divorce ( 22 % ) and alcohol usage ( 16 % ) . For these issues , a majority of Americans said that they were either morally acceptable or not a moral issue . And when it came to the issue of contraceptive use , only 7 % said this was unacceptable .
Opinions about the administration 's handling of the situation are divided along partisan lines . A majority of Republicans ( 67 % ) disapprove of its handling of the situation , while most Democrats ( 56 % ) approve . Independents by roughly two-to-one ( 52 % to 24 % ) disapprove of how the administration has handled the situation involving Russia and Ukraine .
About half of Russians ( 51 % ) say their country should intervene in neighboring countries if there are threats to ethnic Russians there . People who express confidence in Putin are more likely to support such interventions ( 55 % ) than are those who have little or no confidence in the president ( 36 % ) .
A comparison of the activity flags to the final dispositions assigned by the interviewers reveals that while the flag is accurate for the majority of cases , there are both false positives ( numbers flagged as active that are actually nonworking or nonresidential ) and false negatives ( numbers flagged as inactive that are actually working and residential ) . Among the flagged-inactive cases , 15 percent were found to be working and residential ( false negatives ) . Among the flagged-active cases , 10 percent were found to be nonworking or nonresidential ( false positives ) .
1 NATO is viewed favorably by people in the U.S. and many member countries . About six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) had a favorable opinion of NATO in a 2017 Pew Research Center survey of the U.S. and 11 other member countries . U.S. goodwill toward the alliance was significantly higher than in 2016 , when 53 % had a favorable view . Across all 12 NATO member countries included in the 2017 survey , a median of 61 % approved of the alliance , including a majority of respondents in every country except Spain , Greece and Turkey . In the Netherlands and Poland , roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said they have a positive view of NATO . Favorable views of NATO increased in many of these European countries between 2016 and 2017 .
While only about a quarter of U.S. Hispanics say they have heard the term Latinx , awareness and use vary across different subgroups . Young Hispanics , ages 18 to 29 , are among the most likely to have heard of the term – 42 % say they have heard of it , compared with 7 % of those ages 65 or older . Hispanics with college experience are more likely to be aware of Latinx than those without college experience ; about four-in-ten Hispanic college graduates ( 38 % ) say they have heard of Latinx , as do 31 % of those with some college experience . By comparison , just 14 % of those with a high school diploma or less are aware of the term .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 4 - 8 among 1,507 adults , including 549 Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters , finds that Mitt Romney holds a sizable lead in the race for the GOP nomination : 27 % favor Romney , while Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich are tied for second with 16 % each . Ron Paul is not far behind at 12 % . Despite Santorum 's strong showing in the Iowa caucuses , where he only lost to Romney by eight votes , Romney has been the most visible GOP candidate in recent days . In a separate survey conducted Jan. 5 - 8 , 44 % of Republican and Republican-leaning voters name Romney as the candidate they have heard the most about recently , compared with 16 % who name Santorum and 12 % Gingrich .
Americans enter this key stretch feeling good about the Supreme Court . While a 62 % majority of Americans overall have a favorable opinion of the court , Christians are more likely than religiously unaffiliated Americans to see it favorably ( 69 % vs. 51 % ) . This includes about seven-in-ten among white evangelical Protestants , white Protestants who do not identify as born-again or evangelical Christians ( 72 % each ) , and Catholics ( 70 % ) , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in July 2019 .
Almost one-in-five members of the House and Senate are a racial or ethnic minority , making the 114th Congress the most diverse in history . However , Congress remains disproportionately white when compared with the U.S. population , which has grown increasingly diverse in recent decades , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . Overall , non-whites ( including blacks , Hispanics , Asian/Pacific Islanders and Native Americans ) make up 17 % of the new Congress , but that is below these groups ' 38 % share of the nation 's population . This difference also exists among the newly elected members of Congress , as minorities account for 11 of 71 ( 15 % ) new members of the House and Senate . ( No new senators are a racial or ethnic minority . )
India and Pakistan have been divided by decades of political animosities , a nuclear arms race and several wars . Indians and Pakistanis see each other 's country as the biggest threat to their national security , according to Pew Research 's 2012 polls in the respective countries . When asked to choose the most serious threat to their country , 41 % of Indians point to Pakistan . Among Pakistanis , 59 % pick India .
This week 's apparent coup d'etat in Zimbabwe may bring an end to the 37-year-long rule of President Robert Mugabe . It 's the first such seizure of power globally in three years – a reminder of how much rarer coups have become as methods of regime change . Since the end of World War II , there have been 225 successful coups ( counting the events in Zimbabwe ) in countries with populations greater than 500,000 , according to the Center for Systemic Peace , which maintains extensive datasets on various forms of armed conflict and political violence . Most coups occurred during the height of the Cold War , from the 1960s through the 1980s .
The iPhone is , along with Google 's Android , one of the two dominant smartphone platforms in the United States . As of May 2013 , according to a recent Pew Research Center report on smartphone ownership , 25 % of all U.S. cellphone owners– and 43 % of smartphone owners — own an iPhone , a few percentage points behind Android . Other smartphone platforms — Microsoft 's Windows Phone , the fading BlackBerry , the handful of Palms still in use — are far behind .
7 An overwhelming share of Americans ( 85 % ) see U.S. military bases in Germany as important for U.S. national security , but fewer Germans ( 52 % ) see these bases as important for their own national security . More than half of Americans ( 56 % ) see these bases as very important to U.S. national security , and only 13 % of Americans claim these bases are not important . Among Germans , 52 % say these American troops are vital for German national security , although only 15 % claim they are very important . And 45 % of Germans say the bases are not important , including 15 % who say they are not at all important .
Among Republicans , 51 % think the aid will help their household at least a fair amount , while about as many ( 49 % ) say it will help them not too much or not at all . Democrats are less hopeful : 40 % say it will help their household a great deal or fair amount , compared with 59 % who think it wo n't help much or at all .
Most Americans ( 72 % ) say it is likely that Russia or other foreign governments will attempt to influence the November 2020 election . But while majorities in both parties say this , this view is more widespread among Democrats than Republicans , with Democrats considerably more likely to consider efforts by foreign nations to influence the election to be a `` major problem . ''
These findings vary by age . Roughly half of social media users ages 18 to 24 ( 51 % ) say it would be hard to give up social media , but just one-third of users ages 50 and older feel similarly . The data also fit broadly with other findings the Center has collected about Americans ' attitudes toward social media . Despite using them for a wide range of reasons , just 3 % of social media users indicate that they have a lot of trust in the information they find on these sites . And relatively few have confidence in these platforms to keep their personal information safe from bad actors .
Americans are slightly more concerned about cyberattacks ( 74 % major threat ) than are Germans ( 66 % ) , and Germans are more likely to consider climate change as a major concern ( 71 % ) compared with Americans ( 59 % ) . Americans also are generally more concerned about North Korea 's weapons program , the power and influence of Russia and China and the condition of the global economy . ( For more information on global views about cybersecurity , including among Americans and Germans , see the Center 's report `` International Publics Brace for Cyberattacks on Elections , Infrastructure , National Security . '' )
Brazil is well-regarded in much of the world . At least half of those surveyed in 24 of 37 countries have a favorable view of the South American nation . Views of Brazil are particularly positive in Latin America , Africa and Asia , although in many countries a fair share of people offer no opinion . However , Brazil receives low marks in some major Middle Eastern nations . In total , a median of 54 % across the 37 countries have a favorable view of Brazil . See the map below for detailed results from our Spring 2014 survey .
Adults with lower incomes and less education are more likely to place a high value on a spouse or partner 's ability to provide for a family – whether that spouse is a man or a woman . Roughly eight-in-ten adults ages 25 and older ( 81 % ) with no education beyond high school say that , for a man to be a good husband or partner , being able to support a family financially is very important . Among those with some college experience 72 % say this , and the share is smaller still among those with a four-year college degree ( 62 % ) . The pattern is similar when it comes to a woman being a good wife or partner . Four-in-ten high school graduates say being able to financially support a family is very important , compared with 29 % of those with some college and 25 % of those with a bachelor 's degree or higher .
Doctors , nurses and other hospital staff around the country have raised concerns about a shortage of medical supplies during the COVID-19 pandemic . But the U.S. public is generally confident that hospitals and medical centers will be able to care for seriously ill people during the outbreak , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . About seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 71 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that hospitals and medical centers in their area can handle the needs of seriously ill people during the outbreak . Around two-thirds ( 68 % ) say this about hospitals and medical centers around the country , according to the survey , conducted March 19 t0 24 . By comparison , a smaller share of Americans ( 54 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that nursing homes in their area can handle the needs of seriously ill people during the outbreak . Nursing homes in more than half the states have reported coronavirus cases , according to federal data . ( You can explore all survey data in this analysis and the accompanying report by using our interactive data tool . )
European attitudes toward President Barack Obama remain very positive . Across the 10 EU nations polled , a median of 77 % have confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs , including more than eight-in-ten in Sweden , the Netherlands , Germany and France . Europeans are somewhat less enthusiastic about Hillary Clinton , although her ratings are still mostly positive : A median of 59 % have confidence in her . In contrast , ratings for Donald Trump are overwhelmingly negative . A median of just 9 % trust the wealthy real estate developer to do the right thing in world affairs ; 85 % lack confidence in him .
There are differences in these views within different religious traditions , too . Among Protestants , white evangelicals are roughly three times as likely as white mainline Protestants to say that drinking alcohol is morally wrong ( 23 % vs. 7 % ) . Like white mainline Protestants , few white Catholics ( 5 % ) view drinking alcohol as morally wrong . However , the higher rate among Catholics overall who say alcohol is morally wrong may be due to the large number of Latinos in the U.S. Catholic Church , and the opposition to alcohol in many Central and South American cultures .
Among all smartphone app users , six-in-ten downloaders have chosen not to install an app when they discovered how much personal information the app required in order to use it . Separately , 43 % have uninstalled an app for the same reason after initially downloading it .
Yet despite these gains , many seniors remain largely disconnected from the digital revolution . One-third of adults ages 65 and older say they never use the internet , and roughly half ( 49 % ) say they do not have home broadband services . Meanwhile , even with their recent gains , the proportion of seniors who say they own smartphones is 42 percentage points lower than those ages 18 to 64 . Seniors ages 65 to 69 are about twice as likely as those ages 80 and older to say they ever go online ( 82 % vs. 44 % ) or have broadband at home ( 66 % vs. 28 % ) , and they are roughly four times as likely to say they own smartphones ( 59 % vs. 17 % ) .
Social media networks are host to a wide range of human experiences ; they help connect people with one another in both good times and bad . Parents – in this study defined as those with children under 18 – are especially likely to try to respond to the good news others post , answer others ' questions or receive support via online networks . This is true for all kinds of personal matters they encounter – not just parenting posts . While somewhat less common , a majority of parents agree that they try to respond to bad news as well . Mothers are more likely than fathers to engage their networks across a variety of these outreach and support examples :
One striking example is in perceptions of Trump 's handling of the coronavirus outbreak . In a March 2020 survey , 63 % of those whose main source of political and election news is Fox News said Trump is doing an excellent job responding to the outbreak . No more than a quarter of those who cited other news outlets as their main source of political news said this . Fox News regulars were considerably more likely than Republicans overall to describe Trump 's handling of the outbreak as excellent ( 63 % vs. 47 % ) .
Seniors , like any other demographic group , are not monolithic , and there are important distinctions in their tech adoption patterns , beginning with age itself . Internet use and broadband adoption among seniors each fall off notably starting at approximately age 75 . Some 68 % of Americans in their early 70s go online , and 55 % have broadband at home . By contrast , internet adoption falls to 47 % and broadband adoption falls to 34 % among 75 - 79 year olds .
The perceived requirements of being a true Australian notwithstanding , the prevailing view ( 49 % ) among the Australian public is that growing cultural diversity makes their country a better place to live . By comparison , a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) agree that having an increasing number of people from many different races , ethnic groups and nationalities is a positive for the U.S . In Europe , however , a median of just 22 % across 10 European countries surveyed say that growing diversity makes their countries a better place to live .
The number of recent arrivals from regions other than Mexico also declined , but less sharply . So as Mexicans became a shrinking share of recent arrivals , the share of all unauthorized immigrants who had arrived from Asia within the previous five years increased from 13 % in 2007 to 22 % in 2016 . The share from the Northern Triangle nations in Central America grew from 11 % to 18 % . In addition , the share from the rest of the world ( other than Asia , Central America and Mexico ) rose to more than a third of recent arrivals in 2016 , compared with about a quarter in 2007 .
There are fundamental partisan differences over whether elections would be less secure if the rules were changed to make it easier for people to register and vote , according to the June survey . Overall , six-in-ten U.S. adults said elections would not be less secure , while 37 % said they would be . But while around eight-in-ten Democrats ( 79 % ) said that making it easier to vote would not make elections any less secure , a majority of Republicans ( 59 % ) said the opposite .
Today , 73 % of Republicans and Republican leaners are very or somewhat confident in Trump 's ability to work effectively with Congress , down somewhat from 79 % in April . Similarly , 80 % of Republicans are confident Trump can handle an international crisis ; 85 % said this in April . There has been no significant decline in Republican confidence in Trump to manage the executive branch effectively ( 83 % say this today vs. 84 % in April ) . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , very few have confidence in Trump 's ability across issue areas . Just 15 % of Democrats today say they are confident Trump can work effectively with Congress , down from 24 % in April . There have also been declines in the already small shares of Democrats who have confidence in Trump to manage the executive branch effectively ( 12 % today , 19 % in April ) or handle an international crisis ( 10 % today , 15 % in April ) . Just 9 % of Democrats say they are very or somewhat confident that Trump can handle the situation with North Korea .
Overall , sharing passwords to digital devices or accounts is a fairly common practice in romantic relationships . In the October 2019 survey , a majority of Americans who are married , cohabiting or in a committed relationship say they have given their spouse or partner the password for their cellphone ( 75 % ) , their email account ( 62 % ) or any of their social media accounts ( 42 % ) .3 Still , experiences do vary depending on the type of relationship partnered people have . Married or cohabiting adults are much more likely to share their cellphone or social media passwords with their partner than those who are in a committed relationship but are not living with their partner . Roughly three-quarters or more of married adults ( 79 % ) or those who live with a partner ( 74 % ) say they have given their partner the password to their cellphone , compared with 58 % of those who are in a committed relationship . A similar pattern is present among partnered social media users when they are asked about whether they have shared their login information for any of their social media accounts . When it comes to email password sharing , married adults are the most likely group to say they have given their email password to their partner : 70 % say this , compared with 50 % of cohabiting internet users and just 22 % of those in a committed relationship .
Fewer Republicans say Trump is obligated to release his tax returns . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) say Trump has a responsibility to publicly release his tax returns , which is little changed from a year ago ( 60 % ) . However , fewer Republicans say Trump needs to release his returns than did so last year ( 28 % now , 38 % then ) . Democrats continue to overwhelmingly say Trump has an obligation to release his taxes ( 80 % say this ) .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2012 found that relatively few U.S. Catholics ( 19 % ) said that getting a divorce is morally wrong . About a third ( 32 % ) said divorce is morally acceptable , while 45 % said it is not a moral issue . There were not significant differences on this question between Catholics who attend church weekly and those who attend less often .
A driving attitude of the Tea Party is a belief in smaller government : Fully 92 % of Tea Party Republicans prefer a smaller government with fewer services , just 5 % want a bigger government . Among non-Tea Party Republicans , a smaller government is preferred by a less one-sided 67 % -28 % margin .
The share of Americans who use ride-hailing services has increased dramatically . Today , 36 % of U.S. adults say they have ever used a ride-hailing service such as Uber or Lyft , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018 . By comparison , just 15 % of Americans said they had used these services in late 2015 , and one-third had never heard of ride-hailing before .
About one-quarter of the U.S. foreign-born population is unauthorized immigrants , while the majority of the nation 's immigrants are in the U.S. legally . Naturalized citizens account for the largest portion of the foreign-born population ( 45 % ) .
The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted April 18 - 21 among 1,002 adults , finds that the public is evenly divided over whether there is more the government can do to prevent attacks like the one in Boston : 49 % say there is more the government can do to prevent such attacks , but nearly as many ( 45 % ) say there is not much more that can be done . The steps the government has taken since 9/11 are generally seen as having made the country safer . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say steps taken by the government since Sept. 11 , 2001 have made the country safer , while 35 % say these actions have not had much of an effect .
Overall , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say that on the issues that matter to them , their side loses more often than it wins . Just 25 % say their side comes out ahead more often .
They also viewed more content—almost 25 pages per month compared to visitors from Facebook who viewed only 4.2 pages and visitors from search , at 4.9 . And this group also returned far more often to the same news site , visiting 10.9 times per month compared with 2.9 for Facebook visitors and 3.1 for those coming from search .
Trump 's support from evangelicals is strongest among those who attend church regularly . Eight-in-ten white evangelical Protestants who attend church at least once a month approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , including 67 % who strongly approve of his job performance . White evangelical Protestants who attend church more sporadically approve of Trump 's job performance at a nearly comparable rate ( 71 % ) , but they are significantly less likely than churchgoing evangelicals to strongly approve ( 54 % ) .
Europeans overwhelmingly give the U.N. favorable reviews . More than seven-in-ten in France ( 74 % ) and Poland ( 72 % ) offer a favorable opinion , as do majorities in Britain ( 67 % ) , Germany ( 65 % ) , Spain ( 61 % ) and Russia ( 56 % ) . The organization is also widely popular in the two African countries surveyed , Kenya ( 76 % favorable ) and Nigeria ( 71 % ) , and to a lesser extent in two of the three Latin American nations included , Mexico ( 58 % ) and Brazil ( 52 % ) . In Argentina , however , nearly half ( 45 % ) offer no opinion .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
Most in the U.S. see net benefits from science for society , and they expect more ahead . About three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say science has , on balance , had a mostly positive effect on society . And 82 % expect future scientific developments to yield benefits for society in years to come .
Americans ' comfort with sharing information with public health officials about whom they have been with and where they have been varies . Roughly three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 27 % ) say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing the names of people with whom they might have been in physical contact . A similar share ( 22 % ) say the same about their lack of comfort sharing information on places they have recently visited . Half of U.S. adults say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing location data from their cellphone . Republicans are about twice as likely as Democrats to say that they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing the names of people with whom they might have been in physical contact ( 37 % vs. 18 % ) and places they 've recently visited ( 30 % vs. 14 % ) . They are also more likely to express discomfort about sharing location data from their cellphone ( 60 % vs. 42 % ) . Younger adults express less comfort sharing information than older adults . For instance , 32 % of those ages 18 to 29 say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing the names of people they might have been in physical contact with , compared with 21 % of those ages 65 and older who say this . And those with lower incomes and less formal education tend to be less comfortable sharing information . About three-in-ten of those from households with lower ( 28 % ) or middle incomes ( 29 % ) say they would be not at all or not too comfortable sharing names of contacts , compared with 19 % of those with higher incomes who say so .
Some 54 % of parents in households with two full-time working parents say the mother does more to manage the children 's schedule and activities , while 39 % say this task is shared equally and 6 % say the father does more . And 47 % say the mother takes on more when their children fall ill , equal to the share saying they split this duty equally ; just 6 % say the father does more of this .
As previous Pew Research Center surveys have illustrated , ideas at the core of liberal democracy remain popular among global publics , but commitment to democracy can nonetheless be weak . Multiple factors contribute to this lack of commitment , including perceptions about how well democracy is functioning . And as findings from a new Pew Research Center survey show , views about the performance of democratic systems are decidedly negative in many nations . Across 27 countries polled , a median of 51 % are dissatisfied with how democracy is working in their country ; just 45 % are satisfied .
News about the rescue of three women who had been held captive in a Cleveland home was far and away the public 's top story last week . Four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say they followed the story very closely , more than followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy ( 28 % very closely ) or news about the Benghazi hearings ( 23 % very closely ) .
Public confidence in Trump on most key issues remains mixed , though a narrow majority ( 54 % ) now say they are either very or somewhat confident in him to negotiate favorable trade agreements with other countries . This is the first measure in Pew Research Center surveys on which significantly more say they are at least somewhat confident in Trump than say they are not too or not at all confident ( 54 % vs. 44 % ) .
Digital advertising accounted for 35 % of newspaper advertising revenue in 2018 , based on this analysis of publicly traded newspaper companies . The portion stood at 31 % in 2017 – but at 17 % in 2011 , the first year it was possible to perform this analysis .
Biden and Trump supporters say they fundamentally disagree with each other not just on political priorities , but on core American values . In an October survey , eight-in-ten registered voters who supported Biden ( 80 % ) – and a similar share of those who supported Trump ( 77 % ) – said they fundamentally disagree with the other side on `` core American values and goals . '' Only around one-in-five in each group said their differences are limited to politics and policies . In the same survey , 90 % of Biden supporters and 89 % of Trump supporters said there would be `` lasting harm '' to the nation if the other candidate won the election .
People are divided in their perceptions of how powerful a role the U.S. plays on the world stage compared with 10 years ago . A global median of 35 % say the country is as important on the world stage as before , while 31 % say it plays a more important role and 25 % say it plays a less important role . Individually , most countries say the U.S. role has either grown or remains as important as before . Around half or more in Nigeria ( 54 % ) , Israel ( 54 % ) and Kenya ( 51 % ) say the U.S. has grown in power and influence . Japan stands out as the only country where a majority of people think the U.S. plays a less important role than it did 10 years ago . Only 16 % of Japanese think the U.S. has grown in influence , equal to the share of Germans who say the same .
Black Americans prefer getting their news from TV . Six-in-ten say this is their preferred pathway to news ; far fewer prefer online ( 25 % ) , radio ( 9 % ) or print ( 5 % ) . Among Hispanic and white Americans , fewer than half prefer television ( though it is still the most common choice ) .
For those in their first year of teaching who worked a summer job in the months before the 2015 - 16 school year , the money earned during that time of year amounted to a larger portion of their annual income on average ( 12 % ) compared with their peers with more teaching experience . Those who had been teaching for one year or less and worked a second job during the school year brought in a similar proportion of their income from the additional work ( 11 % ) .
About eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 81 % ) say Republican and Democratic voters disagree on basic facts of issues . A similar – albeit slightly smaller – share of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 76 % ) say the same . Just 18 % of Republicans and 23 % of Democrats say that voters of the two parties can agree on basic facts even if they disagree over policies and plans .
Germans who support the right-wing populist party Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) are overwhelmingly opposed to globalization . Only 19 % of AfD supporters say globalization has been a good thing for Germany , compared with 83 % of those who support the Greens and 70 % of supporters of the CDU/CSU or SPD .
In addition , Washington Catholics are significantly younger than Catholics in New York and the country as a whole . Roughly a quarter of D.C.-area Catholic adults are under age 30 ( 26 % ) , compared with just 17 % of U.S. Catholics overall who are in this age group – and only 11 % in New York City . At the same time , just 11 % of Washington , D.C. , Catholics are 65 or older , compared with 20 % of all U.S. Catholics and 23 % and 25 % of Catholics in New York and Philadelphia , respectively .
Knowledge of QAnon varies based on the social media platform used in the past week for election news . For example , people who got news from Reddit or Twitter are most likely to say they 've heard or read a lot ( 8 % and 6 % , respectively ) or a little ( 39 % of Reddit users and 31 % of Twitter users ) about the conspiracy theories . Those who got news from YouTube are also more likely than Americans overall to have heard or read a lot ( 6 % ) or a little ( 27 % ) about QAnon .
Americans continued to track news about the new health care law more closely than any other major story last week , though the media devoted the most attention to the deadly explosion in a West Virginia coal mine—and just 3 % of coverage to health care reform . A third of the public ( 33 % ) says they followed news about health care reform most closely , while 24 % say the mining accident was the story they followed more closely than any other , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted April 9 - 12 among 1,012 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . News about the accident , the search for survivors and mine safety problems made up 17 % of coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
So far , Americans are less concerned about how the new coronavirus is affecting their health , finances and local communities . Still , 27 % say the coronavirus is a major threat to their personal health , while 51 % say it is a minor threat . Only 22 % says it does not threaten their personal health .
Partisans differ sharply over which level of government bears the responsibility for COVID-tests : A sizable majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say this responsibility primarily falls on the federal government , with 28 % saying it is entirely responsible for making sure there are enough tests . A smaller majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 57 % ) say this is primarily the responsibility of state governments .
The combined challenges of paying for college , and finding a job after graduation , has made times tougher for today 's young adults . Paying for college is also viewed as a greater challenge today than it was in the past . Fully 71 % of all adults say it 's harder for today 's young people to pay for college than it was for their parents ' generation . ( See `` How Today 's Economy is Affecting Young Adults . '' )
There are only modest differences in these views across racial and ethnic groups , with about eight-in-ten or more White ( 92 % ) , Black ( 89 % ) and Hispanic voters ( 84 % ) saying that elections in their community will be administered very or somewhat well this November . However , White voters are slightly less likely than either Black voters or Hispanic voters to say that elections across the country will be run and administered well . About two-thirds of Hispanic voters ( 66 % ) and a similar share of Black voters ( 64 % ) say elections in the U.S. will be administered somewhat or very well this November , with about two-in-ten in both groups saying they will be administered very well . Among White voters , 61 % say elections across the country will be administered at least somewhat well , including 13 % who say they will be administered very well . Older voters are more likely than younger voters to say that the November elections will be administered well , both in their communities and in the country as a whole . More than nine-in-ten voters ages 65 and older ( 94 % ) say that the elections in their communities will be administered somewhat or very well , compared with 83 % of voters ages 18 to 29 . And about two-thirds of voters 65 and older ( 68 % ) say elections across the U.S. this November will be administered somewhat or very well , compared with 56 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 57 % of those 30 to 49 .
Take the past three weeks of polling on President Donald Trump . Depending on the poll , Trump 's approval rating between Feb. 5 and 13 could have been as high as 53 % or as low as 39 % . So which was it ?
For police , attitudes about media bias are linked to other feelings about their jobs . Officers who feel strongly that the media treat police unfairly , for example , are more likely than their colleagues to say their work as a law enforcement officer nearly always or often makes them feel frustrated and even angry . Roughly two-thirds of officers ( 65 % ) who strongly agree that the media treat police unfairly say their work always or often makes them feel frustrated , and about one-in-three ( 31 % ) say it makes them feel angry . Feelings of frustration or anger are significantly less common among officers who do n't feel as strongly about media coverage of police . Further analysis would be needed to determine what comes first for police – cynicism about media coverage or feelings of frustration and anger – but these attitudes are clearly related .
The public offers a mixed reaction to a proposal to change Medicare into a program that would give future participants a credit toward purchasing private health insurance coverage : 41 % oppose such a change , 36 % favor it , and nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) have no opinion either way . Despite this even division of opinion overall , there is broad , and strong , opposition to the proposal among older Americans , and those who are paying a lot of attention to the issue .
Gen Z eligible voters , who range in age from 18 to 23 , are a more racially and ethnically diverse group than older generations . While a majority ( 55 % ) are non-Hispanic White , a notable 22 % are Hispanic , according to a Pew Research Center analysis based on Census Bureau data . Some 14 % of Gen Z eligible voters are Black , 5 % are Asian and 5 % are some other race or multiracial .
Public trust in information from scientists in both these areas tends to be higher than it is for information provided by several other groups , particularly industry leaders , the news media and elected officials . But fewer than half of the public trusts information from scientists `` a lot . '' Some 39 % of adults trust climate scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the causes of climate change . A similar share ( 35 % ) of adults trust scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the health effects of GM foods .
More broadly , in a 2014 survey we asked online Indians what types of activities they use the internet for . Majorities of internet users said they had used the web to stay in touch with family and friends and to search and apply for jobs in the past 12 months . At the time , fewer than a quarter of online Indians said they were engaging in commerce or taking a class , but roughly a third or more were getting information about health , government services or politics online . Indians do n't necessarily see the increasing influence of the internet in India as a good thing for the country . In a 2014 survey , only 31 % of Indians said that the increasing use of the internet has had a good influence on politics , 32 % said it was good for personal relationships and 37 % said it was good for morality . Views of the internet 's influence on education were more positive , though : 57 % of Indians say it has been good for education in their country .
Around seven-in-ten adults ( 72 % ) say they would definitely ( 42 % ) or probably ( 30 % ) get a coronavirus vaccine if one were available , while about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they would not . The survey comes amid concerns that activists and others who are hesitant to get vaccinated for other diseases might not get inoculated against the coronavirus .
Since people may have access to high-speed connections at work or at home , the potential reach of broadband access extends beyond just the workplace or just the home front . At work , the broadband gap between rural and non-rural Americans is small and not statistically significant ; 72 % of rural workers who have online access at work have high-speed connections , compared with 75 % of urban and suburban online workers .3 With rural areas lagging in broadband use both at home and ( modestly ) at work , it is not surprising that the gaps persist when looking at access from home or work . Half of all adult Americans who live in non-rural areas can get online with a fast connection at home or work . By contrast , just more than one-third of rural Americans can do this .
What boosts public trust in scientific research findings ? Most say it 's making data openly available . A 57 % majority of Americans say they trust scientific research findings more when the data is openly available to the public . And about half of the U.S. public ( 52 % ) say they are more likely to trust research that has been independently reviewed . The question of who funds the research is also consequential for how people think about scientific research . A 58 % majority say they have lower trust when research is funded by an industry group . By comparison , about half of Americans ( 48 % ) say government funding for research has no particular effect on how much they trust the findings ; 28 % say this decreases their trust and 23 % say it increases their trust .
As Australia prepares for its July 2 national elections , a new poll shows robust support for Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull 's handling of international affairs . This includes majority support for his dealings with the U.S. and China . However , only four-in-ten Australians approve of their leader 's handling of the refugee issue , while roughly a third give him positive marks on climate change .
A survey this summer found that women are much more likely than men to say gender discrimination is a major problem in the technology industry ( 44 % vs. 29 % ) . And when asked about race-related biases , 64 % of blacks and 50 % of Hispanics said discrimination against blacks and Hispanics is a major problem in the tech industry . By comparison , just 21 % of whites said this is a major problem .
The biggest gap between the way Americans are seen by other Western countries , and the way they see themselves , is with respect to religion . Majorities in France and the Netherlands and pluralities in Great Britain and Germany see the U.S. as too religious . By contrast , a 58 % majority of Americans say their country is not religious enough . On this point , Muslims find themselves in rare agreement with the American public ; majorities in Indonesia , Pakistan , Lebanon and Turkey all believe the U.S. is not religious enough .
Most U.S. adults on Twitter report that they follow people with a mix of political views ( 37 % ) or that they do n't know the political views of the people they follow ( 34 % ) . A quarter ( 25 % ) say most of the people they follow on Twitter hold similar political views to their own , while just 4 % say that most of the people they follow have political views that are different from theirs . The above relationship – in which a majority of users follow either a mix of people with different beliefs or say they are n't sure of the political views of the people they follow – holds for the three types of Twitter users identified in this analysis ( political tweeters , nonpolitical tweeters and infrequent tweeters ) . Still , the share of Twitter users who say they follow people with political views similar to their own is much higher among those who tweet about national politics ( 38 % ) than it is among nonpolitical tweeters ( 17 % ) and those who tweet infrequently ( 20 % ) . In part , this dynamic is driven by the fact that nonpolitical tweeters ( 39 % ) and those who tweet infrequently ( 37 % ) are more likely than political tweeters ( 25 % ) to say they do n't know the political views of the people they follow . Democrats and Democratic leaners on Twitter are about twice as likely as Republican and Republican-leaning users to say that most of the people they follow hold similar political views to theirs ( 31 % vs. 15 % ) . A previous Pew Research Center report found that Democrats make up a larger share of all Twitter users than of the general public overall .
Voters are increasingly taking an active role in the political process by contributing their own thoughts or comments to the online debate . In 2008 , nearly one in five internet users posted their thoughts , comments or questions about the campaign on a website , blog , social networking site or other online forum .
As might be expected , they do better than their foreign-born counterparts on many key economic , social and acculturation indicators analyzed in this report . They are much more proficient in English and are less likely to drop out of high school , live in poverty or become a teen parent . But on a number of other measures , U.S.-born Latino youths do no better than the foreign born . And on some fronts , they do worse .
Before the coronavirus outbreak sent the U.S. economy into a recession , the share of American children living in poverty was on a downward trajectory , reaching record lows across racial and ethnic groups , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . In 2019 , the year with the most recently available data , 14 % of children under age 18 , or 10.5 million children , were living in poverty , down from 22 % , or 16.3 million , in 2010 . All major racial and ethnic groups saw declines since 2010 , but the greatest decreases were in the shares of Black and Hispanic children living in poverty . About two-in-ten Hispanic children ( 21 % ) were living in poverty in 2019 , down from 35 % in 2010 . In 2019 , 26 % of Black children were impoverished , dropping from 39 % in 2010 . Even so , Black and Hispanic children were still about three times as likely as Asian ( 7 % ) and White ( 8 % ) children to be living in poverty .
Nearly nine-in-ten Black adults ( 87 % ) favor making it a crime for police to use chokeholds or strangleholds , including 74 % who do so strongly . This proposed policy is supported by 71 % of white adults and 75 % of Hispanic adults .
A majority of Democrats at various income levels support government subsidies for broadband , but there are significant differences among Republicans based on income . For example , 42 % of Republicans and Republican leaners with an annual household income of less than $ 30,000 support broadband subsidies for lower-income Americans . But that figure falls to just 10 % among Republicans from households earning $ 75,000 or more a year . Overall , however , Republicans at all income levels are less likely to support broadband subsidies than Democrats of comparable incomes .
The 2008 presidential campaign dominated the national news last week , driven in large part by the lively Democratic debate in Philadelphia . Public interest in the campaign was up somewhat from previous weeks with 27 % of Americans paying very close attention to campaign news . More than one-in-five named the campaign as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . This placed the campaign on par with the war in Iraq as one of the week 's two most closely followed stories . Democrats paid much closer attention to the campaign than Republicans : 36 % of Democrats vs. 23 % of Republicans followed campaign news very closely . Public interest in the Iraq war remained high despite relatively little news coverage More than three-in-ten Americans followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely and 20 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . Coverage of the Iraq policy debate has fallen off dramatically since September , and public interest in the debate continues to lag behind interest in the war itself . Last week 21 % of the public paid very close attention to the debate in Washington over U.S. policy in Iraq ; 5 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week .
Public attention to reports about the condition of the U.S. economy reached a 15 year high last week with 45 % of the public following this news very closely . This is up from two weeks prior when 38 % reported following news about the U.S. economy very closely and substantially higher than last fall when less than three-in-ten followed U.S. economic news very closely . The last time the condition of the U.S. economy drew this much attention was in February 1993 when 49 % of the public said they followed economic news very closely . The big economic news story last week was the buyout of Wall Street investment bank Bear Stearns by J.P. Morgan Chase with the financial backing of the Federal Reserve . Almost half of the public said that they followed news about the buyout either very closely ( 21 % ) or fairly closely ( 26 % ) , but the story attracted far less interest than the condition of the U.S. economy in general ( 78 % very or fairly closely ) . Those in the top income tiers paid closer attention to news about the Bear Stearns buyout than did those with lower annual incomes . Among those earning $ 75,000 annually , 27 % reported following this story very closely compared to 17 % of those earning between $ 30,000 and $ 49,999 and 16 % of those earning less than $ 30,000 . Income differences do not affect the level of attention paid to the condition of the U.S. economy in general .
Among Republicans , in particular , there are sizable income differences in expectations for the law 's personal impact . A majority ( 62 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaners with incomes of $ 75,000 or more say the tax law will have a mostly positive impact on them and their families . That compares with 50 % of Republicans with incomes between $ 40,000 and $ 74,999 and 43 % of those with incomes below $ 40,000 . Majorities of Republicans across income categories say the law will have a mostly positive impact on the country in coming years .
Looking ahead , most Republicans want to see their party move in a more conservative direction . Nearly six-in-ten Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters ( 58 % ) say they want the GOP to move in a more conservative direction , compared with 38 % who want it to move in a more moderate direction . Republican views on their preferred ideological direction for the party are about the same as they have been following other recent midterm and presidential elections .
Despite the rosy picture in China , many Chinese complain about inequality ( 42 % very big problem ) and inflation ( 38 % ) . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say their government 's economic policies are to blame for the rich-poor gap in their nation , one of the higher percentages across all countries in the survey .
As an industry , political organizations – comprising political action committees ( PACs ) and campaign organizations , among other political clubs – take their cues not from stock markets , but from the quadrennial election cycle . They emerge like pop-up shops ahead of Election Day , and are hastily disassembled shortly thereafter .
In the past , police officers and the general public have tended to view fatal encounters between black people and police very differently . In a 2016 survey of nearly 8,000 policemen and women from departments with at least 100 officers , two-thirds said most such encounters are isolated incidents and not signs of broader problems between police and the black community . In a companion survey of more than 4,500 U.S. adults , 60 % of the public called such incidents signs of broader problems between police and black people . But the views given by police themselves were sharply differentiated by race : A majority of black officers ( 57 % ) said that such incidents were evidence of a broader problem , but only 27 % of white officers and 26 % of Hispanic officers said so .
Indians overwhelmingly see their country gaining global prominence . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) believe India plays a more important role in the world today than it did 10 years ago . By comparison , only about a fifth of Americans and Europeans ( a median across 10 EU member countries ) view their country as rising in importance on the global stage .
Another survey last year found that just 9 % of social media users were `` very confident '' that social media companies would protect their data . About half of users were not at all or not too confident their data were in safe hands .
Tunisians are particularly critical of their country 's current political leadership . Less than half ( 44 % ) view interim president Moncef Marzouki favorably . Just over a third ( 37 % ) see President of the Constituent Assembly and Ettakatol party leader , Mustapha Ben Jaafar , in a positive light , and his support is down 21 percentage points since 2012 . There is even less backing for other coalition and opposition figures , and their standing in the public eye has generally deteriorated . Only former Prime Minister Hamadi Jebali manages to garner the support of a majority of Tunisians ( 58 % ) and even his approval has declined slightly from last year .
In the wake of President Donald Trump 's announcement that the United States would withdraw troops from Syria , the public is divided over the issue , and about two-thirds say they do not think Trump has a clear plan for dealing with the situation in the war-torn country . Overall , 43 % of Americans say withdrawing American troops from Syria would be the right decision , while 45 % say it would be the wrong decision . The new Pew Research Center survey of 1,505 U.S. adults was conducted Jan. 9 - 14 – before a Jan. 16 bombing in Syria in which 14 people were killed , including several American service members and civilians . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 58 % ) think it would be the right decision for the U.S. to leave Syria , while 30 % say it would be the wrong decision . The balance of opinion among Democrats and Democratic leaners is roughly the reverse : Just 30 % view withdrawal as the right decision , while 60 % say it is the wrong decision .
The use of these labels to describe mixed-race ancestry is an example of how racial identity among Hispanics often defies conventional classifications used in the U.S. For example , among Hispanic adults we surveyed who say they consider themselves mixed race , mestizo or mulatto , only 13 % explicitly select two or more races or volunteer that they are `` mixed race '' when asked about their racial background in a standard race question ( like those asked on U.S. census forms ) . Instead , about four-in-ten of Hispanic respondents identifying as mestizo/mulatto say their race is white , while one-in-five volunteered their race as Hispanic .
Overall , 10 % of Americans are what we call Bystanders , or the politically disengaged , according to Pew Research Center 's Political Typology report . None of this cohort say they 're registered to vote , and none say they follow government and public affairs most of the time ( this compares with 48 % of Americans overall ) . Virtually all of this group ( 96 % ) say they 've never contributed money to a candidate running for public office . Bystanders are young ( 38 % are under 30 ) , and nearly a third ( 32 % ) are Hispanic . A third of Bystanders are foreign born , a higher share than any of the other typology groups , including 29 % total who are not citizens .
Friends and family are an important source of news , but Americans still count more on news organizations . Online news consumers are about twice as likely to often get news online from news organizations as they are from friends and family , and they find that news somewhat more accurate and just as near to their interests . Beyond just online news , Americans place as much trust in the information they get from news organizations as they do in information coming from family and friends – though there is a not a lot of trust placed in either . Only about two-in-ten trust information from local or national news organizations `` a lot , '' and 14 % say the same of information from family and friends . At least three-quarters express some or a lot of trust in the information from each . Americans express much more caution about news coming through social media . Although 62 % of adults get news on these platforms , just 4 % of web-using adults trust the information they get there a lot , and 30 % trust it some . This wariness could be tied to the clear distinction the public draws between news they get online from people they are close with and those they are not : News from people they are not close with receives much lower marks for accuracy and relevance .
There also are some differences in their views of important issues , including immigration . Muslim Republicans are much more likely than Muslim Democrats ( 45 % vs. 11 % ) to say immigrants are a burden to society because they take jobs , housing and healthcare , according to a survey conducted by the Center between January and May 2017 . There also is partisan divide on this issue among those in the public overall , according to a separate survey conducted in June and July 2017 .
Eastern Europeans are more likely than Western Europeans to agree that the state is run for the benefit of all . Majorities in four Eastern European countries surveyed – Slovakia ( 88 % ) , the Czech Republic ( 79 % ) , Hungary ( 74 % ) and Poland ( 56 % ) – believe the state is run for the benefit of all . This view is shared by majorities in only two Western European countries , Sweden ( 73 % ) and the Netherlands ( 70 % ) .
White evangelical Protestants are the most conservative Republicans : 79 % describe their political views as conservative , compared with 17 % who say they are moderate and just 2 % who call themselves liberal . Republican white mainline Protestants and white non-Hispanic Catholics also are largely conservative ( 63 % and 66 % , respectively ) , but about three-in-ten in each group say their views are moderate ( 31 % among white mainline Protestants and 30 % among white Catholics ) . Republicans younger than age 30 are less likely than older Republicans to classify their political views as conservative , but 62 % in this age group says the label applies to them , while 29 % say they are moderate and 7 % are liberal . In contrast , among those age 50 and older , nearly three-quarters call themselves conservative ( 72 % ) , 22 % say they are moderate and just 4 % say they are liberal .
Homeowners point to a variety of reasons for considering solar panels . A large majority of homeowners who have already installed or have given serious thought to installing solar panels say they want to help the environment ( 87 % ) . And almost all ( 96 % ) say they want to save money on utility bills . A recent report also found that installing solar panels can increase a home 's value .
A global median of 54 % consider climate change a very serious problem , according to our survey of 40 nations . But there are regional differences on views of climate change , with people from Latin America and Africa expressing more concern than others . Before delegates from 195 nations approved a landmark climate accord in Paris this year to limit carbon emissions , our spring survey found a median of 78 % supporting such a deal .
Latino adults also see upward mobility in their children 's futures . Fully 72 % say they expect their children will be better off financially than they themselves are now . 2
Traditional political activities are most common among the well-educated and financially well-off , regardless of whether they take place online or offline . On social networking sites , income-related differences are more modest — but civic engagement in these spaces is still most prevalent among those with higher educational levels .
Though a 63 % majority of registered voters overall name treatment of racial and ethnic minorities as very important to their vote , it is not the top issue on the voters ' agenda : Eight-in-ten or more rank the economy ( 84 % ) and terrorism ( 80 % ) as very important issues to their vote . Other issues that rank highly on voters ' 2016 importance list include foreign policy ( 75 % very important ) , health care ( 74 % ) , gun policy ( 72 % ) and immigration ( 70 % ) . ( This Pew Research Center survey was conducted in late June , before the events of last week , including the shooting deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile and the deaths of five police officers in Dallas . )
Over the course of more than 15 years and three presidential administrations , Americans have consistently said that defending the nation against terrorism should be a top policy priority for the White House and Congress , according to Pew Research Center surveys conducted since shortly after the attacks of Sept. 11 , 2001 . In January of this year , 73 % of U.S. adults said defending the country against future terrorist attacks should be a top priority for President Donald Trump and Congress – making this one of the most frequently cited priorities , along with improving the educational system ( 72 % ) and strengthening the nation 's economy ( 71 % ) .
Majorities in both partisan groups say there is at least some discrimination against many groups , including Muslims , blacks , gays and lesbians , and Hispanics . But the share of Democrats who say each of these groups face discrimination is significantly higher than the share of Republicans who say the same . For instance , 92 % of Democrats , compared with 69 % of Republicans , say Muslims face at least some discrimination .
Young voters are significantly less engaged in this year 's election than at a comparable point in 2008 and now lag far behind older voters in interest in the campaign and intention to vote . The share of voters younger than 30 who are following campaign news very closely is roughly half what it was at this point four years ago ( 18 % , down from 35 % ) . Just 63 % of young registered voters say they definitely plan to vote this year , down from 72 % four years ago .
But the latest News IQ survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted March 29-April 1 among 1,000 adults , finds considerable variance in what the public knows about the parties . While 67 % correctly identify the Democratic Party as more supportive of raising taxes on higher-income people to reduce the budget deficit , far fewer ( 53 % ) identify the Republican Party as more in favor of reducing the size and scope of government .
Among Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters , somewhat more say they want the Democratic Party to move in a more moderate ( 53 % ) than more liberal ( 40 % ) direction . These views are about the same as they were following the 2014 midterm elections . In November 2016 , after Trump 's presidential election victory , a somewhat greater share of Democrats ( 49 % ) wanted the party to head in a more liberal direction .
In an April survey , two-thirds of U.S. adults said the coronavirus outbreak is likely to significantly disrupt Americans ' ability to vote in November . Around a quarter of adults ( 23 % ) said a significant disruption is very likely , while another 44 % said it is somewhat likely . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents were 30 percentage points more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners ( 80 % vs. 50 % ) to say it is at least somewhat likely that COVID-19 will significantly disrupt the election . ( The survey was conducted relatively early into the U.S. coronavirus outbreak , before cases and deaths spiked across much of the country . It 's possible attitudes may have changed since then . )
And half of voters ( 50 % ) say `` experience and a proven record '' is more important to them than `` new ideas and a different approach '' ( 43 % ) . Republicans ( 59 % ) are more likely than either Democrats ( 46 % ) or independents ( 48 % ) to prioritize a proven record .
Catholics in these three metro areas all tend to have at least somewhat higher household incomes than do U.S. Catholics overall , perhaps reflecting the higher cost of living in these areas . Catholics in the D.C. area have especially high incomes : 29 % of Washington Catholics report household incomes of $ 100,000 per year or more , compared with 19 % of all U.S. Catholics who are in this income bracket .
Those who have attended at least some college are more likely than those with a high school diploma or less to use social media , a trend that has been consistent since 2005 . In that year , 4 % of those with a high school diploma or less used social media , along with 8 % of those who attended some college and 12 % of college graduates . Currently adoption rates for social media stand at 76 % for those with college or graduate degrees , 70 % of those with some college education and 54 % for those who have a high school diploma or less . At the same time , the share of those with a high school diploma or less who use social media has grown more than tenfold over the past decade .
A majority of U.S. teens ( 59 % ) have experienced some form of cyberbullying . About four-in-ten teens ages 13 to 17 ( 42 % ) say they have been called offensive names online or on their cellphone , 32 % say they have had false rumors spread about them and one-quarter report that they have received explicit images they did n't ask for . At the same time , nine-in-ten teens say online harassment is a problem that affects their peers . And while a majority of teens think parents are doing a good job addressing the issue , they are critical of the way teachers , social media companies and politicians are tackling cyberbullying .
In terms of public support , Putin and Medvedev clearly stand out from other figures on Russia 's political stage . Among the presidential candidates this spring , for example , Putin is the only one viewed favorably by a majority of Russians . Indeed , on balance , opinions of veteran politicians such as Communist Party head Zyuganov , A Just Russia 's Mironov and Liberal Democratic Party leader Zhirinovsky are negative ( 52 % , 51 % and 66 % unfavorable , respectively ) .
Not only was the comedian and television host by far the most frequently cited example of a gay or lesbian public figure in the general-population survey , she and President Obama were the leaders when LGBT Americans were asked to name a well-known figure who 's been important in advancing the rights of LGBT people . Nearly a quarter of LGBT respondents cited President Obama , who publicly reversed his previous opposition to same-sex marriage and spoke about it , and LGBT rights more generally , in his second inaugural address this past January .
A generation gap exists among the Japanese in their views of the Chinese . Older Japanese – those ages 50 and older – are more likely than Japanese ages 18 to 34 to see the Chinese as nationalistic . And older Japanese are less likely than the younger generation to believe that the Chinese are hardworking or modern .
However , other industries are even more reliant on near-minimum-wage workers . Based on our estimates , industries where more than three-quarters of the hourly workers make more than minimum but less than $ 10.10 an hour include scrapyards , video-rental stores ( the few remaining ) , mail-order houses , makers of mobile homes and other prefabricated buildings , and car washes .
Overall , the District of Columbia has the highest college degree attainment rate among Hispanic adults , with 36.2 % of those ages 25 and older holding a bachelor 's degree , according to the U.S. Census Bureau 's 2011 American Community Survey . Following D.C. are the neighboring states of Virginia and Maryland , with college degree-attainment rates of 24.1 % and 21.2 % , respectively , among their Hispanic adult populations .
The Latin America and Caribbean region was the world 's fastest-growing source of international migrants from 1990 through 2010 . However , growth in the number of emigrants from this region has slowed dramatically in recent years – due in large part to a slowdown of people leaving Mexico , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data . The global population of emigrants ( people living outside their country of birth ) from Latin American-Caribbean nations grew by 7 % between 2010 and 2017 , according to the analysis , which uses data from the United Nations and the U.S. Census Bureau . This is slower than the overall worldwide growth rate of 17 % during the same period . Other regions , meanwhile , saw faster growth than Latin America during the period , including the Middle East and North Africa ( 38 % increase ) and sub-Saharan Africa ( 32 % ) .
Majorities of U.S. adults favor each of the five proposals to reduce the effects of climate change included in the survey . The most popular , favored by 90 % of Americans , is to plant about a trillion trees to absorb carbon emissions . President Trump announced in this year 's State of the Union that the U.S. would join the World Economic Forum 's One Trillion Trees Initiative .
Less than a month before the 2018 midterm elections , Republicans and Democrats hold positive outlooks about the future of their respective parties , and in both cases these views are more positive than they were a year ago . Three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they are optimistic about the future of the Republican Party , up 16 percentage points from September 2017 , when 59 % felt this way , according to a new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 24-Oct. 7 among 10,683 adults on the American Trends Panel . The current level of optimism among Republicans is similar to what it was immediately following Donald Trump 's election in December 2016 ( 79 % ) . Democrats have a similarly bright outlook for their party – 77 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say they are optimistic about the party 's future .
When asked about their own expectations for 2018 , registered voters are about evenly split in terms of who they think will win the majority in the House of Representatives . By comparison , more voters say the GOP will hold a majority in the Senate than expect the Democratic Party to take control of that chamber . Overall , 51 % of registered voters say they think the Republican Party will hold a majority in the House , while slightly fewer ( 46 % ) say the Democratic Party will hold a majority in the 116th Congress . Partisans are about equally confident that their own party will have the majority : 82 % of those supporting Republican candidates say they expect the GOP to hold the House majority ; 77 % of those supporting Democratic candidates say they expect their party to win the most seats .
Asked which of six pressing issues should be the most important priority for their country , a median of 38 % across the nations polled name health care , including more than four-in-ten in Burkina Faso , Senegal , Tanzania and Uganda . In eight of nine countries , improving health care is the number one priority .
Digital advertising revenue continues to grow , but little of it benefits news organizations . Total digital advertising revenue has jumped 25 % in 2017 across all types of digital outlets , not just news , according to eMarketer . This has been especially true of mobile advertising revenue , which totaled $ 61 billion in 2017 , roughly equal to the total amount of digital advertising revenue just two years prior , in 2015 ( $ 60 billion ) – and which goes hand in hand with Americans ' increased use of mobile for news . However , news organizations seem to share little in this bonanza – 52 % of all digital display advertising revenue goes to just two companies : Facebook and Google .
Broad agreement on the dangers of `` heated or aggressive '' rhetoric by political leaders . A substantial majority ( 78 % ) says `` heated or aggressive '' language directed by elected officials against certain people or groups makes violence against them more likely . This view is more widely shared among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents than Republican and Republican leaners .
The number of impoverished children also declined across racial and ethnic groups . In particular , the numbers of poor Black and White children reached new lows in 2019 ( each around 3 million ) . While there are about as many White children as Black children living in poverty , it 's worth noting that there are more than three times as many White children as Black children in the U.S . The greatest decline was in the number of Hispanic children living in poverty . In 2019 , 3.9 million Hispanic children were living in poverty , down from 6.1 million impoverished Hispanic children nearly a decade earlier . But there are still more Hispanic children in poverty than any other racial or ethnic group , which has been the case since at least 2007 . This is probably because Hispanics are the largest and the youngest racial or ethnic minority population in the U.S. and because the Hispanic child poverty rate is relatively high ( 21 % ) .
Four years ago , a narrow majority ( 54 % ) of voters said that Islam was more likely than other religions to encourage violence among its followers . Today , the balance of opinion has shifted in the other direction , with 45 % of voters saying that Islam is more likely to encourage violence and 51 % saying it does not encourage violence more than other religions .
Similarly , the public 's demand for political stability rose dramatically in the past twelve months . Last year , a majority ( 55 % ) said it was more important to have a democratic government , even if there was some political instability . Roughly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) thought it was more important to have stability . In 2013 , attitudes have flipped – just 37 % now choose democracy and 56 % say stability is a higher priority , even if the government is not fully democratic .
How has the internet changed society ? And what will its impact be in the future ? Our research on the evolution of digital life for 15 years has tracked skyrocketing adoption rates for broadband , mobile and social media , and studied how the internet has changed our political engagement , civic discussion , dating and social ties , as well as how we manage our health . Technology has transformed our lives around digital networks , as chronicled in research director Lee Rainie 's book , `` Networked , '' co-authored with professor Barry Wellman in 2012 . The project has also paid special attention to the online life of key groups ranging from teens to senior citizens and it has done research informing key policy debates , such as those swirling around privacy .
The Obama administration deported 414,481 unauthorized immigrants in fiscal year 2014 , a drop of about 20,000 ( or 5 % ) from the prior year , newly released Department of Homeland Security data show . A total 2.4 million were deported under the administration from fiscal 2009 to 2014 , including a record 435,000 in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the data . The overall decrease is driven by a significant decline in deportations of immigrants with a criminal conviction – from 199,000 in 2013 to 168,000 in 2014 . The 16 % drop is just the second decline on record ( 1981 is the first year for which deportation data of those with criminal convictions are available ) . Some of this decline can be attributed to an increased focus in recent years on deporting at-large convicted criminals , as well as to an increase in 2014 in the number of state and local law enforcement agencies that did not honor immigration authorities ' requests to detain for deportation those who were in jail .
Perhaps the sharpest departure from today 's prevailing ethos is that , by a lopsided 59 % -to-29 % margin , Americans then said they would prefer public rather than private ownership of the electric power industry ! Even more ( 69 % ) gave a thumbs-up to a takeover of the war munitions industry . Still , even then there were limits on the appetite for government takeovers . By a 55 % -to-29 % margin , the public rejected public ownership of the railroads and split 42 % -44 % on the question of government ownership of the banks ( though a 48 % -plurality expected that sooner or later that would happen . )
Men are somewhat more convinced than women that Brexit will be a good thing . But an even larger generational divide exists , with only one-quarter of Brits ages 18 to 29 convinced Brexit will be good for their country , compared with 54 % who say this among people 50 and older .
As of 2016 , 15 % of 25- to 35-year-old Millennials were living in their parents ' home . This is 5 percentage points higher than the share of Generation Xers who lived in their parents ' home in 2000 when they were the same age ( 10 % ) , and nearly double the share of the Silent Generation who lived at home in 1964 ( 8 % ) . It does n't appear that a lack of jobs is keeping Millennials at home . As of the first quarter of 2016 ( when the living arrangements data were collected ) , only 5.1 % of older young adults were unemployed , down from 10.1 % in the first quarter of 2010 . Yet the share of 25- to 35-year-olds living at home rose during that span , increasing from 12 % in 2010 to 15 % in 2016 .
According to a new Pew Research Center/USA TODAY survey , 71 % of Americans say undocumented immigrants who meet certain requirements should be allowed to stay in the country . And 77 % say any legislation allowing them to do so also should provide for increased security along the borders .
The public continues to express positive views of many agencies of the federal government , even though overall trust in government is near historic lows . Large majorities express favorable views of such government agencies as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) , NASA and the Defense Department .
A majority of women say the country has n't gone far enough when it comes to giving women equal rights with men . About six-in-ten women ( 57 % ) hold this view , compared with 42 % of men . But there are sharp differences by political affiliation and – among Democrats – education . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of women who are Democrats or Democratic-leaning independents say the country has n't gone far enough on gender equality , compared with just a third ( 33 % ) of women who are Republican or Republican leaners . Among Democrats , women with a college degree are more likely than less-educated women to say the country has n't gone far enough on gender equality .
Just over half ( 54 % ) of U.S. adults say they were in favor of greater access to experimental drugs before clinical trials have shown drugs to be safe or effective , while 43 % oppose wider access . Views , however , vary greatly by household income and race . Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of adults who live in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year favor allowing more people access to experimental drugs before clinical trials are finished , while 26 % are against wider availability of such drugs . In comparison , adults whose annual family income is less than $ 30,000 are more divided on the issue : 46 % are in favor of wider access while 51 % are in opposition .
Six-in-ten evangelical Protestants ( 61 % ) say they are `` very satisfied '' with the sermons they hear , almost twice as many as those who say they 're `` somewhat satisfied '' ( 32 % ) . Among Catholics , only about a third ( 32 % ) say they 're `` very satisfied , '' while roughly half ( 52 % ) say they are `` somewhat satisfied . '' Catholics also have a higher share of respondents who say they 're `` not too '' or `` not at all '' satisfied ( 15 % vs. 7 % for Protestants ) .
Views of why some people are rich and poor also vary by family income . Those with annual family incomes of $ 75,000 or more are more likely than those with incomes of less than $ 30,000 ( 49 % vs. 36 % ) to say being wealthy is more attributable to hard work than to a person 's advantages . Those with lower incomes , in turn , are more likely than those with higher incomes to say a person is poor more because of circumstances beyond their control than because of a lack of effort .
This gap in use between foreign-born Hispanics and U.S.-born Hispanics , whites and blacks may reflect foreign-born Hispanics ' views of the relative ease of using public libraries . According to the survey , just one-third of immigrant Hispanics say they would find it `` very easy '' to visit a public library in person if they wanted to do so . By comparison , 60 % of U.S.-born Hispanics , 67 % of whites and 59 % of blacks say it would be very easy to visit a public library in person .
When it comes to race and ethnicity , trends in social media adoption are defined by similarities , not differences . Whites , African-Americans and Hispanics have broadly adopted social media at the same brisk pace . In 2005 , 6 % of African-Americans , 7 % of whites and 10 % of Hispanics used social networking sites . Today , those figures stand at 56 % of African-Americans and 65 % of both whites and Hispanics .
People see the internet as a good influence on education , but are skeptical of its effect on morality . Overall , people in the emerging and developing countries surveyed see the internet as having a positive effect on education , personal relationships and the economy . But they are wary about its impact on politics and especially on morality . A median of 42 % across 32 countries say that the internet is a bad influence on morality .
Hungarians give Orbán , with his anti-refugee stance , high marks for his handling of the refugee issue ( 71 % approve ) . By contrast , only about a quarter say the same about the EU .
There are 12 foreign-born members of the 115th Congress – 11 representatives and one senator , Mazie Hirono , D-Hawaii , who was born in Japan . At least 52 other members were born in the United States or its territories to at least one immigrant parent , including 37 in the House and 15 in the Senate , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of biographical information from the Congressional Research Service , news stories , and members ' official websites and genealogical records through Aug. 17 . First- or second-generation immigrants in Congress represent 23 different states . California has by far the most : At least 19 of the state 's 53 House members – more than a third – are immigrants or the children of immigrants , as is Democratic Sen. Kamala Harris , whose mother emigrated to the U.S. from India and whose father emigrated from Jamaica . New York and Florida each have five first- or second-generation immigrants among their members of Congress ; Maryland and Illinois each have four . Countries and territories of origin vary for both first- and second-generation immigrant lawmakers . Seven of the 11 foreign-born House members emigrated from Latin American or Caribbean countries ( three from Mexico , two from Cuba , one from the Dominican Republic and one from Guatemala ) , while the other four hailed from different Asian countries and territories ( India , Japan , Taiwan and Vietnam ) . Among second-generation lawmakers , most have European , Latin American or Caribbean heritage : Their families come from 29 countries and territories , including Mexico ( 10 lawmakers ) , Cuba ( seven ) , Germany ( six ) , and Canada , India and Jamaica ( three each ) . The dozen members of the House and Senate who were born in another country account for 2 % of Congress – a slightly higher share than in the last Congress ( 1 % ) , but down substantially from earlier Congresses and far below the foreign-born share of the U.S. population as a whole ( 14 % ) . U.S.-born children of immigrants ( second-generation Americans ) make up another 12 % of the nation 's population .
The survey finds continuing differences between the public and influentials over the extent to which the nation 's foreign policy should serve domestic objectives . Fully 84 % of the public views the protection of American jobs as a top long-term foreign policy priority ; far fewer opinion leaders see this as an important goal . In addition , the public remains much more skeptical than opinion leaders about the benefits of international free trade agreements . Just 44 % of Americans see agreements like NAFTA as good for the country ; by contrast , solid majorities in all but one group ( religious leaders ) think such pacts have a positive impact .
The public expresses highly positive views of the way local hospitals and medical centers are responding to the coronavirus outbreak . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) say hospitals and medical centers in their area are doing an excellent or good job in responding to the outbreak , including 47 % who say they are doing an excellent job . The public is much less positive in evaluations of how the news media and Donald Trump have responded to the coronavirus outbreak . Fewer than half of Americans ( 46 % ) say the news media have done a good or excellent job in responding to the outbreak ; 53 % say they have done a fair or poor job .
The increase in cell phone ownership has been especially dramatic in Russia . About eight-in-ten Russians ( 82 % ) now say they own a cell phone , compared with just 8 % in 2002 ; in 2007 , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) had a cell phone . In Kenya , cell phone ownership has increased sevenfold , from 9 % in 2002 to 65 % in 2010 , and far more also own cell phones in Jordan ( up by 59 percentage points ) , Argentina ( 49 points ) , China ( 40 points ) and Indonesia ( 38 points ) than did so in 2002 .
Mobile advertising revenue 's rapid growth also continued in 2018 , increasing from $ 57 billion in 2017 to $ 71 billion . Although desktop advertising revenue also saw an increase in 2018 , mobile advertising revenue comprised almost two-thirds ( 65 % ) of all digital advertising revenue .
Bachelor 's degree recipients from private schools graduated with higher average debt than those with four-year degrees from public schools . A typical private non-profit college graduate in 2011 - 2012 who borrowed to complete their education graduated with $ 32,308 in loans ( those graduating from private for-profit colleges owed even more , at about $ 40,038 ) , compared with $ 25,640 among public university graduates the same year .
A majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 83 % ) say their greater concern is that some states are making it too difficult for people to get an abortion . By 65 % to 33 % , Republicans and Republican leaners say their greater concern is that some states are making it too easy for people to get an abortion . Views on this question are closely related to overall views on whether abortion should be legal or illegal . Almost nine-in-ten of those who say abortion should be legal in all or most cases ( 88 % ) say their greater concern is that some states are making it too difficult to get an abortion . Among those who think abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , 83 % say their greater concern is over states making it too easy for people to get an abortion .
Just 14 % followed news about the start of President Obama 's trip to Asia very closely ; 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The trip accounted for 2 % of coverage .
The expectation that the election will be exhausting is in line with perceptions of the campaign so far . Most Americans say the campaign has been too long and dull ( 56 % each ) , while 53 % say it has been too negative . At the same time , an overwhelming majority ( 79 % ) views the presidential campaign as important .
There has been an overall gain of 6.4 million more non-farm payroll jobs last month than in January 2009 , which represents a 4.8 % increase . All of that growth came from the private sector , while the public sector shrunk : Private payrolls have added 7 million jobs over Obama 's presidency , while government payrolls ( federal , state and local ) have contracted by a combined 634,000 jobs . The service sector has generated many of the new jobs , particularly in health care , temporary help , and the bar , restaurant and food service business .
Among Democrats , former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris are followed by similar shares of users . But among Republicans , a substantially larger share follows Trump than follows Vice President Mike Pence . And although relatively small shares of users follow candidates from the other party , nearly one-in-five Democrats ( 18 % ) follow at least one account associated with Trump – comparable to the shares who follow each member of the Democratic presidential ticket .
Japanese and South Koreans expect the U.S. to come to their aid in the event of a conflict with North Korea – and Americans support such a move . Two close neighbors of North Korea , Japan and South Korea , are also U.S. treaty allies , meaning that if North Korea used military force against them , the U.S. would be obligated to defend them . In both countries , large majorities expect this would happen : 91 % of South Koreans expect U.S. assistance in the event of a military conflict with North Korea , and 82 % of Japanese say the same . Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say the U.S. should use military force to defend its allies in Asia in the event that they get into a serious military conflict with North Korea .
Ethnocentrism also plays a role in this wave of populist views . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) AfD supporters in Germany , a majority ( 56 % ) of National Front backers in France and nearly half ( 47 % ) of Party for Freedom ( PVV ) adherents in the Netherlands say their people 's culture is `` superior to others . '' This sense of national cultural pre-eminence is far less prevalent among the rest of the publics in their countries .
Despite the overall public uneasiness with this type of digital snooping , there are some Americans who report that they have looked through their significant other 's phone without that person 's knowledge . Roughly one-third of partnered adults ( 34 % ) say they have done this , but there are substantial differences by gender , age and relationship status when it comes to looking through a significant other 's phone . Among adults who are partnered , women are far more likely than men to report that they have looked through their current partner 's phone without that person 's knowledge ( 42 % vs. 25 % ) . And while 52 % of partnered adults ages 18 to 29 say they have done this , those shares are 41 % among those ages 30 to 49 , 29 % among those ages 50 to 64 and 13 % among those 65 and older .
China 's economic rise , coupled with the challenges that have plagued the U.S. economy since the onset of the Great Recession , have led to shifting views about the economic balance of power in the world . Looking at 20 countries surveyed in spring 2008 – before the depths of the financial crisis – and again this year , the median percentage naming the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power has dropped from 49 % six years ago to 40 % today . During the same period , the percentage naming China has risen from 19 % to 31 % . More broadly , many around the world believe that at some point China will surpass the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower . In 2008 , global public opinion in these 20 nations was divided on this question , with 41 % saying China will eventually replace or has already replaced the U.S. as the dominant superpower , and 39 % saying China will never supplant the U.S. Today , 50 % say China has replaced or will replace the U.S. , while just 32 % believe this will never happen .
While 93 % of Democrats say Trump has definitely or probably done things that are grounds for impeachment – including 70 % who say he has definitely done such things – a smaller majority of Republicans ( 80 % ) say he has not . Fewer than half of Republicans ( 46 % ) say Trump has definitely not done things that are grounds for impeachment .
Around four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of those Americans who think the news media are covering the outbreak very well say they are very confident in their own ability to check the accuracy of COVID-19 information . That compares with around a quarter of those who think the media are doing somewhat well ( 23 % ) or not too or not at all well ( 24 % ) at covering the outbreak . Views of the news media 's coverage of the outbreak align closely with people 's confidence in their own fact-checking abilities even after accounting for how closely Americans are paying attention to COVID-19 news .
In addition to their concerns about the impact of mobile phones on children , majorities across the 11 countries surveyed also say people should also be very worried about issues such as identity theft ( an 11-country median of 66 % say people should be very concerned about this ) , exposure to false information ( 64 % ) , mobile phone addiction ( 62 % ) and harassment or bullying ( 59 % ) when using their mobile phones . Fewer are very concerned about the risk that people might lose the ability to communicate face-to-face due to mobile phone use ( 48 % ) .
News reports about swine flu and the availability of a vaccine were followed very closely by about a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) , while 9 % named news about swine flu as their top story of the week . The media devoted 3 % of newshole to the story . The public paid relatively little attention to reports about CIA interrogation methods and an investigation into alleged abuse of terrorism suspects . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed the story very closely and just 3 % name news about CIA interrogation methods as their top story of the week .
2 A majority of the public believes much of their online activities are being tracked . More Americans say they think that what they do online or on their cellphone is being tracked than believe their offline activities are tracked . They are also more likely to believe companies track more of their activities ( both online and off ) than think that the government is collecting information on them . For example , the majority of Americans believe that all or most of what they do online and on their cellphone is being tracked by companies ( 72 % ) , while just 47 % think the same of the government . Smaller shares believe all or most of their offline activities ( like where they go and who they talk to ) are being tracked by companies ( 31 % ) and the government ( 24 % ) .
About half of employed parents with children younger than 18 – including similar shares of mothers ( 53 % ) and fathers ( 51 % ) – say being a working parent makes it harder for them to be a good parent . But employed moms ( 50 % ) are more likely than employed dads ( 39 % ) to say being a working parent makes it harder for them to advance in their job or career .
People in five countries – Jordan , Lebanon , India , the Philippines and Tunisia – were specifically asked their opinion of other religious groups in their country , and opinion varies widely across these five nations . In Jordan , where about 97 % of the population practices Islam , about nine-in-ten adults or more rated both Muslims and Christians favorably . Similar positivity appeared in Lebanon , with roughly three-quarters or more giving positive reviews to Christian , Sunni and Shiite religious groups . Bigger divisions appear in three of the other surveyed countries that were asked about various religious groups . Favorable views of Sunni Muslims outpaced that of Shiites by more than five-to-one in Tunisia , where Islam is the official religion but very few identify as Shiite . Likewise , in Christian-majority Philippines , favorable views of Christians were nearly universal ( 97 % ) while just 57 % said the same of Muslims in their country .
However , since the start of the Great Recession counties in North Dakota have topped the list . Williams County , Stark County and Ward County have all seen their Hispanic populations more than double from 2007 to 2014 ( though from a small base ) . In fact , North Dakota 's statewide Hispanic population nearly doubled to 18,000 in this same time period , making it the state with the highest Hispanic growth rate ( though it ranks 49th among the 50 states and the District of Columbia by Hispanic population ) . 3 Other counties outside the South that are among the 10 fastest-growing include Luzerne County in Pennsylvania , Beadle County in South Dakota , Duchesne County in Utah and Burleigh County in North Dakota . Overall , just three of the top 10 fastest growing counties by Hispanic population since 2007 were in the South .
Americans differ over the role and value of scientific experts in policy matters . While confidence in scientists overall tilts positive , people 's perspectives about the role and value of scientific experts on policy issues tends to vary . Six-in-ten U.S. adults believe that scientists should take an active role in policy debates about scientific issues , while about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say , instead , that scientists should focus on establishing sound scientific facts and stay out of such debates .
Concerns about immigration deeply divide remainers and leavers . A majority ( 57 % ) of the British public said they favor more restrictions on entry into the UK . People who reported voting `` leave '' were much more likely than those who reported voting `` remain '' to favor more restrictive immigration . Big majorities of Conservative identifiers and people on the political right similarly supported more restrictions on immigration , but to a lesser extent than `` leave '' voters . While only three-in-ten people on the political left supported more restrictive immigration , Labour supporters were nearly evenly split : 49 % were in favor and 51 % were not .
About three-quarters ( 77 % ) of college-educated newsroom employees have undergraduate degrees in the arts and humanities , more than three times the share among all other college-educated workers in the U.S. ( 23 % ) . College-educated workers in other occupations and industries , by comparison , are much more likely than those working in newsrooms to have bachelor 's degrees in science , engineering and related fields ( 45 % vs. 16 % ) and business ( 22 % vs. 5 % ) , as well as education ( 10 % vs. 3 % ) .
But while the public supported civil rights legislation conceptually , they expressed concerns about the pace of its implementation . Indeed , although most supported the new civil rights law soon after it was passed , a national Opinion Research Corporation poll showed 68 % of Americans wanting to see moderation in its enforcement , with only 19 % wanting vigorous enforcement of the new law .
Younger adults are especially likely to live out their relationships through social networking sites . Some 48 % of SNS users ages 18 - 29 have used these sites to check up on someone they dated in the past , and 31 % have posted details or pictures from a date on a social networking site .
Men and women who have used online dating sites and apps hold somewhat differing views about how widespread online harassment is on these platforms , according to the most recent survey . For example , while 32 % of female users say people being harassed or bullied is a very common occurrence on online dating platforms , that share falls to 19 % among male users . These gender differences persist across all age ranges . Among those who have used an online dating platform – as well as among Americans overall – women are less likely than men to view meeting someone through a dating site or app as safe . Around a third of women who have online dated ( 36 % ) believe these platforms are not too or not at all safe for meeting people , compared with 22 % of men . Still , majorities of online daters view these platforms as a safe way to meet others .
Both Univision and Telemundo have local affiliate stations that carry their own original news programming . In 2018 , average viewership for Univision affiliates dropped in three key time slots . Univision affiliates ' late night news ( 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. ) showed a drop of 17 % , while evening news ( 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. ) viewership for Univision affiliates saw a smaller drop of 5 % . Morning news for Univision affiliates , which has far lower viewership overall , dropped by 11 % . Average viewership for Telemundo affiliates during these time slots was more varied , with evening news dropping 6 % , late night news remaining about steady , and morning news seeing a steep decline of 70 % in average audience .
U.S. Hispanics say relief from the threat of deportation is more important than a pathway to citizenship . Among U.S. Hispanics , a larger share — by 56 % to 35 % — said in a Sept.-Oct. 2014 survey that it is more important that unauthorized immigrants be able to live and work in the U.S. without threat of deportation than have a pathway to citizenship . Among Hispanic adults , immigrants ( 59 % ) are more likely than U.S.-born Hispanics ( 54 % ) to say that being able to live and work legally is more important . Among Latino registered voters , 51 % say deportation relief is more important than a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants . Meanwhile , four-in-ten Latino voters say the opposite .
Today , 65 % of voters say they are fearful about the state of the country , little changed since June . A smaller majority ( 57 % ) say they feel angry , down from 73 % five months ago .
Nevertheless , the Japanese are divided on how best to deal with their superpower neighbor . In thinking about relations with China , 47 % say having a strong economic relationship is the most important thing to do , while 45 % believe the best way forward is to be tough on territorial disputes between Japan and China .
By more than two-to-one ( 68 % to 25 % ) , white evangelical Protestants say the U.S. does not have a responsibility to accept refugees . Other religious groups are more likely to say the U.S. does have this responsibility . And opinions among religiously unaffiliated adults are nearly the reverse of those of white evangelical Protestants : 65 % say the U.S. has a responsibility to accept refugees into the country , while just 31 % say it does not .
Europeans are pessimistic about their long-term economic future . Many are unhappy with the current state of the economy in Europe : In five of the 10 European nations we polled earlier this year , majorities described the economic situation in the country as bad . But perhaps more troublingly , Europeans have a grim view about the economic prospects for the next generation . In 2015 , we asked people in 40 nations around the world whether children in their country will be better or worse off financially than their parents when they grow up . In Latin America , Africa and Asia , people tended to believe the next generation would be better off , but in the Middle East , the United States and especially in Europe , there was widespread pessimism .
For example , half of all frequently angry and frustrated officers say that most people respect the police , a view shared by roughly eight-in-ten officers ( 78 % ) who are not frequently angry or frustrated . Officers who say they frequently feel frustrated by their job , but not angry , fall squarely in the middle . In addition , frequently angry and frustrated officers are roughly twice as likely as those who are not frequently angry or frustrated to agree that police have reason to be distrustful of most citizens ( 46 % vs. 21 % ) . About eight-in-ten angry and frustrated officers ( 77 % ) agree that they have become more callous toward people since taking the job . This compares with 42 % of officers who say they are not frequently angry or frustrated .
When it comes to children 's living arrangements , there are modest differences across community type , which are linked to the variation in both marriage and births outside of marriage . For example , in the suburbs , where marriage is relatively common and nonmarital births are relatively low , 71 % of children live with two married parents . This is slightly higher than the 66 % of children in urban areas living with two married parents , and similar to the 68 % of rural children who live with two married parents .
As Donald Trump prepares to announce his long-awaited decision on the Iran nuclear agreement , more Americans say they disapprove ( 40 % ) than approve ( 32 % ) of the agreement , with about a quarter ( 28 % ) offering no opinion .
Interestingly , the French also were most likely to support cutting government spending as a solution to its economic problems , according to the spring global attitudes survey by the Pew Research Center : 81 % of the French public said they preferred cuts rather than trying to stimulate the economy through increasing government spending . That was the highest support level for cuts among eight European countries ( the only ones in the global survey that were asked that question ) .
A similar partisan pattern emerged in the U.S . Although the majority of Americans said they do n't have confidence in elected officials , more Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 36 % ) than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 17 % ) had confidence .
Historically , and perhaps counterintuitively , older voters have been the least likely to vote in person on Election Day , according to Census Bureau estimates . In 2018 , for instance , 51.2 % of voters ages 65 and older said they had cast their ballot in person , compared with 59.6 % of all reported voters . The likeliest group to have queued up outside a school , firehouse or other polling place was 25- to 44-year-olds , 64.5 % of whom cast their ballots in person on Election Day .
Building a professional resume is among the most prominent of these challenges : Some 17 % of Americans ( not including those who are retired and/or disabled ) indicate that it would not be easy to create a professional resume if they needed to do so . Another 21 % say that it would not be easy to highlight their employment skills using a personal website or social media profile . Roughly one-in-ten indicate that it would be difficult for them to go online to find lists of available jobs ( 12 % ) ; fill out a job application online ( 12 % ) ; use email to contact or follow up with a potential employer ( 11 % ) ; or look up online services available to assist job seekers ( 10 % ) .
Some 41 % of adults say they would not be likely to speak with a public health official by phone or text message about COVID-19 . Not all Americans are equally likely to say this . For example , looking at this first step of the process only , 48 % of those with a high school diploma or less formal education say they would be not at all or not too likely to speak with a public health official in this way , compared with a smaller share ( 30 % ) of those with a bachelor 's degree or higher . There are also differences by income : 45 % of those from households with lower incomes say they would be not at all or not too likely to do so by phone or text , while a smaller share ( 31 % ) of those in higher-income households say the same . Younger Americans are also less likely to say they would speak with a public health official by phone or text during the outbreak . Roughly half ( 49 % ) of adults ages 18 to 29 say they would be not at all or not too likely to do so , compared with smaller shares of Americans 50 and older who express such reluctance .
Overall , a majority of registered voters ( 57 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident that both in-person and mail-in ballots will be counted as voters intended . One-third say they are confident in how in-person ballots will be counted but not how mail-in ballots will be counted .
Black , Asian and Hispanic mothers experienced a greater decrease in the shares who were at work in the COVID-19 downturn than White mothers . Among fathers , Black and Hispanic fathers saw a greater decrease in the share employed than White and Asian fathers .
The public overall is almost evenly divided : 51 % say this responsibility rests mostly with states , while 48 % say the federal government should be primarily responsible . Partisans express contrasting views : While 68 % of Republicans say state and local governments should be primarily responsible for developing and implementing policies to limit the spread of the coronavirus , 64 % of Democrats say the federal government bears most of the responsibility .
A majority of Americans support the renewal of diplomatic relations with Cuba . A Pew Research Center survey from July 2015 found that 73 % of Americans approved of the thaw in relations between the two countries . A similar share also said they would favor ending the trade embargo the U.S. imposed against Cuba in 1960 . Support for renewed diplomatic and economic relations had increased across nearly all partisan groups since January 2015 , the month after Obama announced his initiative .
Non-Hispanic White Americans make up the largest share of registered voters in the U.S. , at 69 % of the total as of 2019 . Hispanic and Black registered voters each account for 11 % of the total , while those from other racial or ethnic backgrounds account for the remainder ( 8 % ) . White voters account for a diminished share of registered voters than in the past , declining from 85 % in 1996 to 69 % ahead of this year 's election . This change has unfolded in both parties , but White voters have consistently accounted for a much larger share of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters than of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters ( 81 % vs. 59 % as of 2019 ) .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) say they are bothered a lot ( 49 % ) or some ( 24 % ) when they are around people in public places who are not wearing masks . By contrast , just 28 % say they are bothered at least some by stores and businesses that require customers to wear a mask . Far more ( 72 % ) say such a requirement does not bother them much or at all .
Views of events in Russia 's history differ by the level of confidence in President Vladimir Putin . Russians who trust Putin to do the right thing on the world stage are more likely than those who express no confidence to name World War II as the most important event of the past century ( 35 % vs 24 % ) . This may reflect Putin 's efforts to promote the war as a defining moment for the Russian nation . Among the small share who express no confidence in Putin , the top historical event is the dissolution of the Soviet Union ( 30 % ) , not World War II .
Employment at online news outlets is especially concentrated in the Northeast . About four-in-ten newsroom employees who work in internet publishing live in the Northeast ( 41 % ) . Another 28 % live in the West .
Five specific , self-identified radio formats accounted for 69 % of the 1,536 LPFM stations , four of which are religious in nature ( `` religion , '' `` Christian , '' `` religious music '' and `` Spanish/religious , '' according to data from BIA/Kelsey ) . The most common format named was `` variety '' ( 476 stations ) – which spanned such organizations as the Gourd Farming Educational Society , Northland College , and the African American Family and Cultural Center . Other format categories included `` information '' ( 36 stations ) , `` oldies '' ( 31 ) , `` alternative '' ( 29 ) , `` country '' ( 15 ) and `` ethnic '' ( 10 ) . Many stations offer a mix of locally originated programs with syndicated shows .
Yet even among non-Muslims with positive feelings about Muslims , large shares in most countries still favor banning face coverings . Among those who say they would be willing to accept a Muslim in their family , a median of 55 % support banning facial coverings , and this includes majorities in Germany , the United Kingdom , Austria , Switzerland and the Netherlands . This is not the case in every country , however . For example , about six-in-ten Portuguese adults with these positive feelings about Muslims favor no restrictions on religious clothing .
For example , in valuing people from different backgrounds , 35 % say female business leaders are better , while 3 % say male leaders are better . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) do n't see a gender difference . Similarly , 33 % say female executives do a better job considering the societal impact of business decisions while 8 % say male leaders are better at this and 58 % say there is n't any difference .
Ten states accounted for nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of newly enrolled foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities in 2016 .
Scientists are held in high esteem by most Americans , with public confidence in scientists outpacing that for other prominent groups , but Black adults are significantly less likely than White adults to share that view . While views of scientists generally tilt positive , there 's a 14-point gap between the shares of White and Black adults who say they have a great deal of confidence in scientists ( 41 % vs. 27 % ) . And while most adults in both groups have at least a fair amount of confidence in scientists , Black adults are about twice as likely as White adults to say they have not too much or no confidence in scientists to act in the public interest ( 21 % vs. 11 % ) . U.S. Hispanics rate scientists about the same as White adults do , expressing more confidence in them than Black adults do .
Clinton 's lead in the early race for the Democratic nomination is reflected in her positive personal image . Clear pluralities of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters rate her as the candidate who would be the strongest leader ( 37 % ) and the most likely to make the changes the country needs ( 37 % ) . When it comes to which candidate has the best experience to be president , Clinton and Gore are tied with 39 % each . And in rating which candidate is the most inspiring , 32 % of Democrats name Clinton , while 34 % name Obama .
Unlike in the U.S. , people in other countries mostly say their own country has done a good job dealing with the outbreak . Around half of Americans ( 52 % ) say the country has done a bad job responding to the COVID-19 pandemic , while a similar share ( 47 % ) say the response has been good , according to a survey in the U.S. and 13 other countries this summer . People in most of the surveyed nations are far more likely to see their country 's response positively than negatively . In neighboring Canada , for example , 88 % of adults say their country has done a good job , while just 11 % say it has done a bad job . The balance of opinion is similar in Germany , the Netherlands and South Korea . But public sentiment is not positive everywhere . In the United Kingdom , 54 % of adults say their country has done a bad job handling COVID-19 , while 46 % say it has done a good job . People in Spain are also fairly closely divided : A little over half ( 54 % ) say the country has done a good job responding to COVID-19 , while 47 % say the response has been bad .
While new technology allows campaigns and groups multiple ways to reach out to voters , campaign commercials have by far the widest reach . Fully 72 % of registered voters nationwide report having seen or heard campaign commercials related to the 2012 presidential campaign . That is far more than the percentages saying they have received email from a campaign or political group ( 16 % ) , visited a candidate 's website ( 15 % ) or followed a candidate 's updates on Twitter or Facebook ( 6 % ) .
Roughly four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say not being far enough along in their job or career is at least a minor reason why they 're not engaged or married to their partner . Cohabiters who are not engaged but want to get married someday are more likely to cite their partner not being ready ( 26 % ) , rather than themselves ( 14 % ) , as a major reason they 're not engaged or married .
On balance , Republican and Republican leaners are more likely to side with Donald Trump over Republican leaders if there is a disagreement between them on an issue . About half ( 52 % ) say they would be more likely to trust Donald Trump , while only about a third ( 34 % ) say they would be more likely to trust Republican leaders in Congress . Younger Republicans ( those under 40 ) are the only subgroup of Republicans who say they are more inclined to trust Republican congressional leaders over Trump in the case of a disagreement between them . Just 36 % of Republicans under 40 say they would be more likely to trust Trump in this scenario , while 52 % say they would more likely to trust Republican leaders . Majorities of older Republicans say they would be more likely to trust Trump .
The gap between whites , blacks and Hispanics exists among Americans with and without a college degree . For example , among those with a college degree or more , whites got an average of 3.7 more correct answers than blacks and 1.7 more than Hispanics . There are also differences between whites , blacks and Hispanics with a college degree on the factual science knowledge items in the GSS .
The power of partisanship is reflected in attitudes about Donald Trump . In the survey , conducted in June , Trump 's job ratings are more deeply polarized along partisan lines than those of any president in more than 60 years . Overall , Trump gets his most positive ratings among the two most solidly Republican groups , Core Conservatives and Country First Conservatives . Large majorities in each group strongly approve of Trump 's job performance ( 80 % of Core Conservatives , 71 % of Country First Conservatives ) .
Beyond the campaign , two news stories drew large audiences last week . Nearly one-in-three Americans ( 29 % ) paid very close attention to the U.S. Department of Agriculture 's recall of over 100 million pounds of frozen beef . Attention to this story was on par with other recent product recalls such as those affecting Chinese toys and other products last summer and fall and contaminated pet food last spring . Roughly one-in-ten ( 11 % ) said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week .
Few Republican and Democratic registered voters say a candidates ' electability is more important than shared issue positions in deciding who to support in next year 's primary elections and caucuses . About two thirds of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 67 % ) and a similar share of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 65 % ) say it is more important that a primary candidate share their positions on the issues than be able to beat the other party 's nominee . This is similar to opinion in the fall of 2007 , when most potential voters in both parties had a similar desire to support the candidate who shared their issue positions in the 2008 primaries .
And the differences between right and left go beyond disagreements over politics , friends and neighbors . If they could choose anywhere to live , three-quarters of consistent conservatives prefer a community where `` the houses are larger and farther apart , but schools , stores , and restaurants are several miles away . '' The preferences of consistent liberals are almost the exact inverse , with 77 % saying they 'd chose to live where `` the houses are smaller and closer to each other , but schools , stores , and restaurants are within walking distance . ''
Economic inequality . Majorities of the supporters of leading Democratic candidates view economic inequality as a very big national problem ; even larger shares say that business corporations in the U.S. have too much power . Yet Democrats disagree sharply about the impact of billionaires on the country . A majority of Sanders ' supporters ( 55 % ) and 49 % of Warren supporters say the fact that there are some people with personal fortunes of a billion dollars or more is a bad thing . By contrast , the predominant view among Bloomberg supporters ( 69 % ) , as well as Biden ( 67 % ) and Buttigieg supporters ( 61 % ) , is that this is neither good nor bad .
The wealth of white households was 13 times the median wealth of black households in 2013 , compared with eight times the wealth in 2010 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Federal Reserve 's Survey of Consumer Finances . Likewise , the wealth of white households is now more than 10 times the wealth of Hispanic households , compared with nine times the wealth in 2010 .
While people in some EU countries support taking in refugees , there is widespread disapproval of how the EU has handled the refugee issue , the survey finds . In Greece , Sweden , Hungary and Italy , about eight-in-ten or more disapprove of the way the EU is dealing with the issue . In fact , across all 10 EU countries surveyed , majorities disapprove of how the EU is dealing with the refugee issue . In many countries , disapproval levels with how the EU has dealt with the refugee issue have exceeded disapproval rates of the EU 's handling of the economy , according to the Center 's spring 2017 survey . This suggests that the refugee issue is not simply a sign of broader disapproval of the EU .
Roughly three-in-four Indians ( 77 % ) say they are very or somewhat concerned about people being exposed to false or incorrect information when they use their mobile phones , including 45 % who are very concerned . Similar shares of both BJP and Congress supporters say they are very concerned . This finding comes amid recent violent attacks attributed to viral WhatsApp hoaxes and concerns about the app being used to spread fake news .
There is considerable dissatisfaction with the way democracy is working in many countries . Across the nations polled , a median of 52 % are dissatisfied with how their democracy is working , while 44 % are satisfied . Greeks , Bulgarians and Nigerians register the highest levels of dissatisfaction . In general , people with lower incomes and those who do not support the ruling party are more likely to be dissatisfied with the functioning of democracy . Further , in many European countries , supporters of right-wing populist political parties are especially likely to hold this view . Supporters of Poland 's Law and Justice Party and Hungary 's Fidesz Party – two governing populist parties – show the opposite pattern . One way in which people are unhappy with the way democracy works is that they see political elites as out of touch . Across the nations surveyed , a median of 64 % disagree with the statement `` Most elected officials care what people like me think . '' This opinion is particularly widespread in Europe – a median of 69 % express this view . Further , 71 % share this view in the U.S . In contrast , fewer say this in the three Asian emerging economies included in the study : India ( 31 % ) , the Philippines ( 29 % ) and Indonesia ( 18 % ) . When asked whether the state is run for benefit of all the people , global publics are almost evenly divided : A median of 49 % say yes , while 50 % say no . But there are large differences across countries . For instance , 88 % in Slovakia believe the state is run for the benefit of all , but just 19 % hold this view in Greece . Overall , the share of the public saying the state is run to benefit everyone in society has declined in many nations since the Pew Research Center asked the question in 2002 . Three nations – Japan , the Czech Republic and Slovakia – have seen an increase in the share who say the state is run for the benefit of all since 2002 . Despite the frustration many people feel about political leaders and the way their political systems are working , they have not given up on democracy , and most still believe they can have a voice in the process . A median of 67 % agree that voting gives ordinary people some say about how the government runs things .
Since 2000 , English-speaking Asian-Americans have shown consistently higher rates of internet usage compared to whites , blacks , and Hispanics . Fully 72 % of English-speaking Asian-Americans said they were internet users 15 years ago when Pew Research began to regularly measure internet access . Whites and Hispanics would not cross this threshold until 2006 , and blacks would reach this level in 2011 . In 2014 , fully 97 % of English-speaking Asian-Americans reported being internet users . Among different racial and ethnic groups , African-Americans have seen the greatest growth rate between 2000 and today , though they are still less likely than whites and English-speaking Asian-Americans to be internet users .
About one-in-five white evangelical Protestants ( 22 % ) and unaffiliated ( 21 % ) say parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated , a slightly higher share than for other religious groups . One-in-ten white mainline Protestants ( 10 % ) and nearly the same share of Catholics ( 11 % ) , for instance , say parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated for measles , mumps and rubella .
A sizable majority of U.S. adults ( 66 % ) say social media companies have a responsibility to remove offensive content from their platforms , but just 31 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in these companies to determine what offensive content should be removed . Overall , about half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 52 % ) say social media companies have a responsibility to remove offensive content from their platforms . A much larger share of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 77 % ) say social media companies have this responsibility .
When asked whether they personally know someone who has had an abortion – such as a close friend , family member or the respondent themselves – 57 % of the public says they know someone who has had an abortion ; 42 % say they do not . About half or more across most demographic groups say they know someone who has had an abortion . Women ( 63 % ) are 12 percentage points more likely than men ( 51 % ) to say they personally know someone who has had an abortion . Across age groups , the youngest adults ages 18 to 29 ( 48 % ) are less likely than older adults – particularly those ages 50 to 64 – to say they know someone who has had an abortion .
Are you planning to wish your mom a Happy Mother 's Day on Facebook ? If so , you 're not alone . `` Moms '' ( defined as women with a child or children under the age of 18 living at home ) are especially likely to be Facebook users , even compared with dads , or with other women , according to Pew Research Center 's 2012 data on social networking . Some 79 % of moms use Facebook , compared with 61 % of all women and 57 % of men with a minor child living at home . ( As of December 2012 , 54 % of all American adults and 67 % of internet users use social networking sites . ) Perhaps it 's not surprising so many moms are on Facebook . Women surpassed men in their social networking site usage several years ago and since then they have been consistently more likely than men to use online social networks .
Those who pushed for the new watchdog cited the phone hacking scandal for undermining public trust in the press and reinforcing the need for more oversight . A Eurobarometer survey , sponsored late last year by the European Commission , found that only 21 % of the British public trusted the print press , compared with 49 % who trusted television and 54 % who trusted radio . While those numbers are bleak for print outlets , they are in keeping with trust levels that have hovered between the high teens and low twenties in past Eurobarometer surveys .
Despite overwhelming concerns about crime and drug-related violence and negative assessments of the country 's economy and overall direction , most Mexicans continue to say that President Calderón and the national government are having a positive impact on the country . Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say the president 's influence is good , while 39 % describe it as bad ; 54 % give the national government a positive rating , while 41 % say the government is having a negative influence . Compared with two years ago , however , views of Calderón and the government have become increasingly negative . In 2009 , three-quarters said Calderón was having a positive influence and 72 % said the same about the national government ; just 22 % and 26 % gave the president and the government , respectively , a negative rating .
As the U.S. presidential election approaches , very few polled in Canada , Europe or the Asia-Pacific have confidence in Donald Trump to do the right thing regarding international affairs . Across the 13 countries surveyed , a median of 16 % have confidence in the American president .
Few older adults are smartphone owners : More than half of all Americans now have a smartphone , but among older adults , adoption levels sit at just 18 % . Additionally , smartphone ownership among older adults has risen only modestly in recent years , from 11 % in April 2011 . A significant majority of older adults ( 77 % ) do have a cell phone of some kind , but by and large these tend to be more basic devices . Among older adults , tablets and e-book readers are as popular as smartphones : Among the general public , smartphones are much more common than either tablet computers or e-book readers , such as Kindles or Nooks . But tablets , e-book readers , and smartphones are each owned by an identical 18 % of older adults . In fact , the proportion of older adults who own either a tablet or an e-book reader is actually larger than the proportion owning a smartphone . Some 27 % of seniors own a tablet , an e-book reader , or both , while 18 % own a smartphone .
There also is a significant difference in views of whether Trump and Biden are courageous . While 91 % of voters who support Trump describe their candidate as courageous , fewer Biden supporters ( 75 % ) say the same about him . For example , while 71 % of Trump voters ages 40 and older describe Trump as a good role model , a much smaller majority of those under age 40 describe him this way . There also are wide age differences among Trump supporters in perceptions of Trump as honest and that he cares about ordinary people , with fewer younger Trump supporters saying these descriptions apply .
Pew Research Center 's new national political survey finds that just 38 % of registered voters who support Trump are very confident their vote will be accurately counted . Another 31 % say they are somewhat confident , while 30 % have little or no confidence their vote will be counted accurately . The gap between the two camps is about as large among those who express confidence in an accurate vote count nationally . Nearly half of Clinton supporters ( 49 % ) and just 11 % of Trump supporters are highly confident that votes across the country will be counted accurately .
The public continues to view China as a serious problem , but not an adversary . A plurality of Americans say they view China as a serious problem ( 43 % ) , while smaller shares say China is not a problem for the U.S. ( 31 % ) or consider it an adversary ( 22 % ) . These views are little changed in recent years . There are minor partisan differences in opinions of China . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are somewhat more likely than Democrats and leaners to consider China an adversary . About a quarter of Republicans ( 26 % ) rate China as an adversary , compared with a smaller share of Democrats ( 17 % ) . Roughly a third of Democrats do n't consider China a problem ( 34 % ) along with 27 % of Republicans . There are age and ideological divisions within the GOP . Younger ( ages 18 - 49 ) and moderate and liberal Republicans are less likely than older ( ages 50 and older ) and conservatives to view China in adversarial terms .
Once online , internet users in emerging and developing nations have embraced socializing as their most preferred type of digital activity . Majorities of internet users in all countries surveyed with large enough sample sizes to analyze say they stay in touch with friends and family online . Many also use cyberspace for getting information about politics , health care and government services . Less common are commercial and career activities , such as searching or applying for a job , making or receiving payments , buying products and taking online classes .
Hispanics are significantly more likely than the general U.S. public to believe in core parts of the American dream – that hard work will pay off and that each successive generation is better off than the one before it . Yet many Hispanics see the American dream as hard to reach , and belief in it declines as immigrant roots grow distant , according to newly released results from a Pew Research Center 2016 survey of Hispanic adults . More than three-quarters of Hispanics ( 77 % ) said at the time that most people can get ahead with hard work , a higher share than among the U.S. public ( 62 % ) in 2016 . For Hispanics , similar shares expected their standard of living to be better than that of their parents ( 75 % ) and expected their children to be better off than themselves ( 72 % ) . Among the U.S. public , by contrast , just 56 % expected to be better off than their parents , and 46 % expected their children to have a better standard of living than they did .
A median of 78 % in the eight countries surveyed say a lack of jobs is a very big problem in their country . And a median of 71 % cite the public debt . Except in Germany , overwhelming majorities in many countries say unemployment , the public debt , rising prices and the gap between the rich and the poor are very important problems . Unemployment is the number one worry in seven of the eight countries . Inequality is the principle concern in Germany . Apprehension about economic mobility and inequality is also widespread . Across the eight nations polled , a median of 66 % , including 90 % of the French , think children today will be worse off financially than their parents when they grow up . A median of 77 % believe that the economic system generally favors the wealthy . This includes 95 % of the Greeks , 89 % of the Spanish and 86 % of the Italians . A median of 60 % think the gap between the rich and the poor is a very big problem ; that sentiment is felt by 84 % of the Greeks and 75 % of both the Italians and the Spanish . And a median of 85 % say such inequality has increased in the past five years , a concern particularly prevalent among the Spanish ( 90 % ) .
Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say they think of Fox News as `` mostly conservative , '' 14 % say it is `` mostly liberal , '' and 24 % say it is `` neither in particular . '' Opinion about the ideological orientation of other TV news outlets is more mixed : while many view CNN and the three broadcast networks as mostly liberal , about the same percentages say they are neither in particular . However , somewhat more say MSNBC is mostly liberal than say it is neither in particular , by 36 % to 27 % .
Within the GOP , moderates and liberals ( 74 % ) are more likely than conservatives ( 61 % ) to say an additional aid package will be necessary . And liberal Democrats are slightly more likely than conservative and moderate Democrats to think another bill will be necessary ( 92 % vs. 83 % ) .
Americans are wary about how much the U.S. should be involved globally . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) want the U.S. `` to deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their own problems as best they can . '' Just 37 % say the U.S. should help other countries deal with their problems .
Overall , 38 % of Republicans say the federal government 's policies are influenced a great deal by evidence from public health experts , compared with only 17 % of Democrats . Democrats are at least three times as likely as Republicans to say public health experts do not influence the federal government 's policies related to the coronavirus too much or at all ( 36 % vs. 10 % ) . There are differences in perspective on this issue between younger and older Republicans . About half of Republicans in the Baby Boomer or older generations ( 47 % ) say the federal government 's policies on the spread of the coronavirus are influenced a great deal by public health experts , while only 22 % of younger Republicans in the Millennial or Gen Z generations say the same .
Among self-identified Hispanics , 61 % of immigrants are Spanish dominant , meaning they are more proficient in speaking and reading in Spanish than they are in English . By comparison , only 6 % of the second generation is Spanish dominant and essentially none of the third generation is Spanish dominant , according to the Center 's estimates . While a small share of U.S.-born Latinos are Spanish dominant , a larger share is bilingual . Among second-generation self-identified Latinos – i.e. , the U.S.-born children of immigrant parents – about half ( 51 % ) are bilingual . Among third or higher generation self-identified Latinos , that share is 24 % .
Meanwhile , fewer Democrats say the news media are treating either candidate fairly than in past years . While eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners said the news media were fair in their coverage of Obama in 2008 , this figure dropped to 62 % in 2012 , and is now about half ( 48 % ) for Clinton . Similarly , their share for the Republican candidate fell from 67 % in 2008 to 40 % this year .
The new survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 1 - 13 among 3,487 adults , finds that 54 % currently approve of the House 's decision to conduct an impeachment inquiry , while 44 % disapprove . Neither party engenders a great deal of confidence that they will be `` fair and reasonable '' during the impeachment inquiry , the survey finds . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) expect that the Republicans in Congress will be fair in handling the inquiry , while slightly more ( 47 % ) say the same about the Democrats in Congress .
An estimated 36.6 million Hispanics of Mexican origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Mexicans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Mexican origin ; this includes immigrants from Mexico and those who trace their family ancestry to Mexico . Mexicans are the largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 62 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Mexican-origin population has increased 76 % , growing from 20.9 million to 36.6 million over the period . At the same time , the Mexican foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 29 % , from 8.7 million in 2000 to 11.2 million in 2017 .
The public paid very close attention to the inauguration of Barack Obama as president last week , while keeping a close eye on the nation 's troubled economy . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) Americans say the inauguration of the nation 's first black president was the news story they followed most closely . By comparison , 25 % say the same of the economy , according to the latest Pew Research Center weekly News Interest Index survey . The inauguration 's many story lines – from complex logistics to analysis of Obama 's speech – easily made that event the most reported story of the week . According to the weekly content analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , the media devoted 24 % of the national newshole to the inauguration . The troubled economy was the second most covered story at 15 % of the newshole as several big stories kept people focused on the nation 's financial woes despite the inaugural celebrations .
Most voters with teenage children say they talk about the election with their children somewhat often ( 44 % ) or very often ( 20 % ) . Parents of younger children talk about the election with their children much less often . Parents and children bring the election up in conversation at nearly the same rate . About half ( 54 % ) of the parents who said they talk about the election at least somewhat often with their children say they mostly discuss it because their children bring it up . About as many ( 46 % ) say they mostly bring it up in conversation . The share that says their children mostly bring it up does not vary depending on the ages of the children .
The sharing economy and on-demand services are starting to weave their way into the lives of Americans . About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) have used some type of online or shared service , such as the ride-hailing service Uber or the home-sharing service Airbnb . College graduates , those with relatively high household incomes and those younger than 45 are most exposed to these services . Those with lower incomes and who live in rural areas are less exposed .
When Congress created the Postal Service to replace the old Post Office Department , it mandated that the new agency support itself through its own revenues , rather than relying on federal appropriations . However , the last year the Postal Service recorded any profit was 2006 , and its cumulative losses since then totaled $ 83.1 billion as of March 31 . The Postal Service also owes $ 11 billion to the Treasury and more than $ 59 billion in required but unpaid contributions to its employee pension and retiree-health funds .
Factual knowledge alone does not explain public confidence in the scientific method to produce sound conclusions . Overall , a 63 % majority of Americans say the scientific method generally produces sound conclusions , while 35 % think it can be used to produce `` any result a researcher wants . '' People 's level of knowledge can influence beliefs about these matters , but it does so through the lens of partisanship , a tendency known as motivated reasoning .
After a year marked by riots over cartoon portrayals of Muhammad , a major terrorist attack in London , and continuing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , most Muslims and Westerners are convinced that relations between them are generally bad these days . Many in the West see Muslims as fanatical , violent , and as lacking tolerance . Meanwhile , Muslims in the Middle East and Asia generally see Westerners as selfish , immoral and greedy – as well as violent and fanatical .
The Pew Research Center analyzed about 600,000 tweets that directly referred to the government shutdown from September 27 - 30 . The largest component of the conversation ( 35 % of the assertions ) was made up of tweets relaying straight news accounts and information without comment , while 26 % focused on impact of a government shutdown , such as the effects on the stock market , federal employees or the economy as a whole . Almost as much of the Obamacare conversation ( 42 % ) focused on straight news as opinions over the law ( 43 % ) . Much less of the discussion involved the implementation of the health care changes . Confusion and concerns about potential problems associated with implementing the law made up 10 % , while messages pointing people to where they could get information about enrolling in the new exchanges made up 5 % . ( The analysis ended on Monday , Sept. 30 , the day before the exchanges became active . )
Among opponents of the health care bills , 84 % say too much government involvement in health care is a major reason for their opposition and 75 % say health care reform is too expensive for the country . Seven-in-ten cite possible cuts in Medicare and concern that their own health care may suffer as major reasons for their opposition . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of opponents say the possibility of covering illegal immigrants is a major reason they oppose the bills and 58 % say a major reason is the possibility that government money might pay for abortions .
Nearly half ( 49 % ) say they are very or somewhat interested in news out of Russia . There is less interest in news about other former Soviet states that are less consistent players on the global stage . About a third say they are very or somewhat interested in news from Ukraine ( 36 % ) or Poland ( 34 % ) . And among African countries , about half ( 52 % ) say they are very or somewhat interested in what happens in Sudan , while about four-in-ten say they are this interested in news out of South Africa ( 44 % ) , Kenya ( 41 % ) , Nigeria ( 40 % ) and Somalia ( 39 % ) . About nine-in-ten Republicans say they are very or somewhat interested in news about what happens in Iraq ( 90 % ) or Afghanistan ( 88 % ) . Three-quarters of Democrats say the same ( 74 % for Iraq ; 75 % for Afghanistan ) . On the other hand , Republicans and Democrats are equally interested in news about Iran ( 71 % very/somewhat interested ) .
Asians make up 43 % of immigrant eligible voters in California , the highest of any racial or ethnic group . Nationally , Latinos make up a higher share of immigrant eligible voters than Asians ( 34 % vs. 31 % ) , but the reverse is true in the Golden State , where many Latino immigrants are ineligible to vote because they do not hold U.S. citizenship .
Most Americans ( 59 % ) say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , especially those who live near a coast . Two-thirds of those who live within 25 miles of a coastline ( 67 % ) say this , compared with 59 % of those who live 25 to 299 miles from a coast and half of those who live 300 miles or more from a coast . These geographical differences exist within the parties too : Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents who live within 25 miles of a coastline are more likely than those who live at least 300 miles inland to say climate change is affecting their local community . The same is true among Republicans and Republican leaners .
Economic story lines also captured the public 's attention . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the ups and downs in the stock market most closely , while another 10 % say news about the downgrade in the government 's credit rating was their top story .
Since 2011 , the proportion of cell owners who say they own either an iPhone or an Android device have each grown dramatically . Android owners now represent 28 % of all cell owners ( up from 15 % in May 2011 ) , while iPhone owners now represent 25 % of the cell owner population ( up from 10 % in May 2011 ) . Meanwhile , the proportion of cell owners who say they own a Blackberry device has fallen from 10 % in May 2011 to just 4 % in our most recent survey .
For the oldest caregivers , adult caregiving was particularly rewarding , but also more burdensome . Caregivers ages 75 and older said 82 % of their adult caregiving activities were very meaningful . This figure fell to 59 % among caregivers ages 60 to 74 and as low as 29 % among those ages 18 to 29 .
Eight-in-ten immigrant Latinos said in 2016 that their own standard of living is better than that of their parents , and just as many expected their children will be better off . Among second-generation Hispanics ( the U.S.-born children of immigrant parents ) , these shares were 75 % and 71 % , respectively – slightly below the shares of immigrant Latinos . But for third or higher generation Latinos ( U.S.-born Latinos with U.S.-born parents ) , just two-thirds ( 66 % ) said they will be better off than their parents and 60 % said they expect their kids to be better off .
Fully 78 % say that while the news from Egypt is important , `` there are issues in the United States that concern me more . '' And a majority ( 55 % ) says they feel they lack the background information to really know what is going on there . These opinions are little changed from two years ago , when public interest in Egypt news was substantially higher .
Somewhat fewer ( 70 % ) say it is very important for Congress to reduce the federal budget deficit . Nearly as many ( 66 % ) see addressing the country 's energy needs as very important , while 63 % say the same about addressing immigration policy . About half ( 53 % ) say it is very important for Congress to pass legislation that would more strictly regulate financial institutions and markets .
In 2010 , households in the U.S. were more economically divided than households in the Western European countries examined in this report . The U.S. is the only country in which fewer than six-in-ten adults were in the middle class . Meanwhile , compared with those in many Western European countries , greater shares of Americans were either lower income ( 26 % ) or upper income ( 15 % ) . The middle class is a significant presence in the Western European countries analyzed , even as it is shrinking in many countries . Middle-class shares ranged from 64 % in Spain to 80 % in Denmark and Norway in 2010 . The share of adults who were lower income was lowest in the Netherlands ( 13 % ) and highest in Spain ( 24 % ) , and upper-income shares ranged from 6 % in Norway to 14 % in the UK .
The survey finds that a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say the primary reason that the number of confirmed coronavirus cases is increasing is because there are more new infections , not just more testing for the disease . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say cases are rising primarily because more people are being tested than in previous months .
Republicans have their own differences : Those under age 30 are more than twice as likely as those 65 and older to support making college tuition free for all Americans ( 55 % vs. 24 % ) . And while Republicans who have completed college are mostly opposed to making tuition free for all American students , the proposal draws more support from Republicans who do not have a four-year degree . The differences among Republicans are particularly stark when combining age and educational attainment . Among Republicans under age 50 who have not completed college , 58 % favor making college tuition free for all Americans . Among Republican college graduates , only 34 % favor this . Support for tuition-free college declines among older Republicans , regardless of whether or not they have completed college . However , even among Republicans who are ages 50 and older , those who have not completed college are less supportive .
More say China is playing a larger role in the world compared with 10 years ago than say the same about the U.S. Respondents were read a list of seven major countries and were asked whether each is playing a more important , less important or as important role in the world compared with 10 years ago . Among the seven countries tested , China stands out : A median of 70 % across 25 countries say it plays a more important global role than it did a decade ago , a significantly higher share than for the other six countries . The U.S. falls in the middle : Roughly similar medians say it is as important as 10 years ago as say its importance has grown .
Despite their political differences , most Republicans and Democrats stop short of saying that people in the other party do not share their other values and goals beyond politics . Among both parties , about four-in-ten ( 41 % of Republicans and 38 % of Democrats ) say that members of the opposing party `` feel differently about politics , and they probably do n't share many of my other values and goals either . '' ( Note : these questions are based on partisans and do not include those who lean toward the parties ) .
The survey finds that Republicans have generally positive impressions of six GOP declared or likely candidates . Jeb Bush is the best known of those included in the survey , but he also has the highest unfavorable rating : 52 % of Republicans and Republican leaners view Bush favorably , while 35 % view him unfavorably . About half of Republicans ( 51 % ) view Marco Rubio favorably , compared with 20 % who have an unfavorable impression ; 29 % are unable to rate the Florida senator . Scott Walker is viewed favorably by 46 % , while 17 % rate him unfavorably ( 36 % unable to rate ) . And 45 % view Ted Cruz favorably , compared with 25 % who view him unfavorably ( 30 % ca n't rate ) .
That paradox is possible because of the growing size of the Hispanic population , which has increased from 12.5 % of the total U.S. population in 2000 to 16.9 % in 2012 . If both trends continue , at some point in the future , it is possible that a majority of U.S. Catholics will be Hispanic even though the majority of Hispanics will no longer be Catholic . The share of Hispanics who are Catholic likely has been in decline for at least the last few decades , according to long-term trends in the General Social Survey , and the movement of Hispanics away from Catholicism is not limited to the U.S . In some Latin American countries , evangelical Protestant churches have been gaining members and the share of those with no religious affiliation has been growing .
Adults who live in urban or suburban communities have shown consistently higher levels of internet adoption , compared with rural residents . This gap has persisted even as internet adoption has risen in all three types of communities . In 2000 , 56 % of suburban residents , 53 % of urban residents , and 42 % of rural residents were internet users . Today those figures stand at 85 % , 85 % , and 78 % respectively . Rural communities tend to have a higher proportion of residents who are older , lower-income , and have lower levels of educational attainment – additional factors associated with lower levels of internet adoption .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that nearly all Israeli Jews self-identify with one of four subgroups : Haredi ( `` ultra-Orthodox '' ) , Dati ( `` religious '' ) , Masorti ( `` traditional '' ) and Hiloni ( `` secular '' ) . Beyond differences in religious belief and practice , these groups inhabit largely distinct social worlds characterized by their own lifestyles and politics . Following is a short profile of each of these four major religious groups , based on the ways Israeli Jews in the new survey describe themselves :
But it 's not the only time they do so . A large majority of Americans ( 78 % ) feel a strong sense of gratitude or thankfulness on a weekly basis , according to a new poll by the Pew Research Center . And only 6 % of Americans say they seldom or never experience these feelings . That being said , some groups are more likely than others to express gratitude . For example , 84 % of women regularly feel a strong sense of gratitude or thankfulness , compared to 72 % of men . And nearly nine-in-ten Mormons , Jehovah 's Witnesses and evangelical Protestants – traditionally some of the most observant religious groups – say they feel gratitude or thankfulness at least once a week .
A poll last week by the Pew Research Center found that 59 % of Democratic voters said there was a `` good chance '' they would vote for Clinton . That is higher than the 52 % of Democrats who said there was a good chance they would back Clinton at a comparable point in 2007 . The bigger change , by far , is the state of Clinton 's possible Democratic competition . In early 2007 , a first-term senator named Barack Obama was already running for president – and 32 % of Democrats saw a good chance of supporting him . By June of that year , Clinton 's advantage on the `` good chance '' measure had narrowed to 10 points over Obama and former Vice President Al Gore ( 44 % , versus 34 % for each ) .
Nearly eight-in-ten of those who said in a January survey that Biden was their first choice for the Democratic presidential nomination ( 79 % ) now say the likely Democratic nominee being a white man in his 70s does not bother them . A narrower majority of those who backed Sen. Bernie Sanders in January ( 58 % ) say the same . However , about six-in-ten Democratic voters who supported other candidates in January now say they are bothered that the likely Democratic nominee is an older white man . Voters who preferred Sen. Elizabeth Warren are particularly likely to hold this view : Nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) say this , as do 57 % of those who backed Pete Buttigieg and 52 % of those who supported other candidates at the beginning of the year .
Africa has the youngest population of any region , with a median age of 20 – roughly a decade less than the global figure . All but one of the 20 countries with the lowest median ages are in Africa . ( The exception is Afghanistan . ) Four-in-ten Africans are below the age of 15 and just 6 % are 60 or older . Niger , in Western Africa , has the world 's youngest population . Half of Niger 's population is 14 or younger , and the median age is 15 . Niger is one of the world 's poorest countries and ranks last on the UN Human Development Index . The fertility rate in Niger is the world 's highest , and life expectancy is among the world 's lowest . Like its neighbors Mali and Burkina Faso , Niger is burdened by escalating military conflicts .
Race relations in the United States are a work in progress , as always , but most blacks , whites and Hispanics say they get along reasonably well with each other . In the Pew Research Center 's recent report on race in America , 81 % of whites and 73 % of blacks say those two groups get along `` very '' or `` pretty '' well . When the same question was asked six years ago , 77 % of whites and 69 % of blacks said their groups generally got along well together .
About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say that Republicans in the Senate will be at least somewhat fair and reasonable during the trial , with just 17 % saying they are very confident GOP senators will do this . Slightly more ( 48 % ) expect Democratic senators to be at least somewhat fair , though just 18 % say they are very confident in this . ( Note that much of this survey was fielded before the beginning of the trial and the release of the Senate rules . )
If the national exit poll 's estimate proves correct that 10 % of all voters this year were Hispanic , it would mean that as many as 12.5 million Hispanics cast ballots . But perhaps a more illuminating way to analyze the distinctive characteristics of the Hispanic electorate—current and future—is to parse the more than 40 million Hispanics in the United States who did not vote or were not eligible to vote in 2012 . That universe can be broken down as follows : This turnout could rise even more if naturalization rates among the 5.4 million adult Hispanic legal permanent residents were to increase over time—and/or if Congress were to pass a comprehensive immigration reform bill that creates a pathway to citizenship for the more than 7 million unauthorized Hispanic immigrants already living in the U.S .
Researchers are , of course , interested in the extent to which nonresponse bias is getting worse over time . Comparing current levels to those measured roughly four years ago , we find that , on average , the accuracy of telephone survey data is at least as high as it was in 2012 . On 13 demographic , lifestyle and health questions11that have high response rate benchmark survey data , the average ( absolute ) difference between the Center telephone estimates and the benchmark survey estimates was 2.7 percentage points in 2016 , compared with 2.8 points in 2012 . In general , accuracy as measured by these benchmarks was lower among certain demographic groups such as young adults and minorities . But there is no indication that the biases within groups got worse over time . Most major subgroups – defined by age , gender , race or education – saw the accuracy of their estimates from phone surveys either stay level or slightly improve . For example , across the 13 lifestyle , health and demographic questions with high response rate comparisons , the average difference between the Hispanic adult estimate from Pew Research Center phone surveys and the same Hispanic estimate from the benchmark survey was 5.5 percentage points in 2016 as compared with 6.7 in 2012 . The average change in accuracy from 2012 to 2016 was similar for non-Hispanic white . For blacks , however , their phone survey estimates differed from benchmark survey estimates by an average of 5.1 percentage points in 2016 versus 4.2 points in 2012 .
The public expresses considerably higher levels of confidence that the security of the election systems in their state and around the nation were secure from hacking than it did before the election . About three-quarters ( 77 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that their state 's systems were secure from hacking and other technological threats , up 11 percentage points from the share saying this before the election ( 66 % ) . And while just 45 % expressed confidence in the security of systems in the U.S. before the election , more than six-in-ten ( 64 % ) now say this . Confidence has risen among both parties , but the shift is particularly pronounced among Democrats . About three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 76 % ) are either very or somewhat confident that systems in their state were secure – a month before the election , just 60 % said this . Republicans express even higher levels of confidence in the security of their state 's systems ( 81 % now say this , up from 75 % pre-election ) . Before the election , just 34 % of Democrats said they were at least somewhat confident election systems in the U.S. were secure from hacking and other technological threats . That has risen to 60 % following the election .
The proposed border wall is deeply divisive along partisan lines . By nearly two-to-one ( 63 % to 33 % ) , Republicans and GOP leaners favor building a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border . By contrast , just 13 % of Democrats favor building a border wall , while 84 % are opposed . There also are substantial generational and ethnic differences in views of a border wall . Just 20 % of Millennials favor building a wall along the entire U.S.-Mexico border , which is far lower than the shares of Gen Xers ( 36 % ) , Boomers ( 43 % ) and Silents ( 47 % ) who favor this proposal . Whites ( 43 % favor ) are more than twice as likely as blacks ( 13 % ) and Hispanics ( 16 % ) to favor building a border wall .
The survey also asked if a number of descriptions applied to the people of their generation . Silents are far more likely than people in younger age cohorts to view their own generation in a positive light . Large majorities of Silents say the people of their generation are hard-working ( 83 % ) , responsible ( 78 % ) , patriotic ( 73 % ) , self-reliant ( 65 % ) , moral ( 64 % ) , willing to sacrifice ( 61 % ) and compassionate ( 60 % ) .
Governmental restrictions include not only national laws and policies , but also actions by local governments and officials , which we find account for a sizeable portion of government restrictions worldwide . In this regard , however , the situation in the Asia-Pacific region is mixed because it includes some countries and territories with low governmental restrictions — such as Japan and Taiwan — as well as some countries with very high government restrictions , such as China and Burma . Indeed , of the 10 countries with very high government restrictions , only two are in the Middle East and North Africa ( Saudi Arabia and Egypt ) , while seven are in Asia ( Iran , Uzbekistan , China , Burma , the Maldives , Malaysia and Brunei ) . Only one is in Sub-Saharan Africa ( Eritrea ) .
Mexican-origin Hispanics have always been the largest Hispanic-origin group in the U.S . In 1860 , for example , among the 155,000 Hispanics living in the U.S. , 81.1 % were of Mexican origin – a historic high . Since then the origins of the nation 's Hispanic population have diversified as growing numbers of immigrants from other Latin American nations and Puerto Rico settled in the U.S. For example , between 1930 and 1980 , Hispanics from places other than Mexico nearly doubled their representation among U.S. Hispanics , from 22.4 % to 40.6 % . But with the arrival of large numbers of Mexican immigrants in the 1980s and 1990s , the Mexican share among Hispanics grew , rising to a recent peak of 65.7 % in 2008 , but declining since .
Hillary Clinton 's long-awaited announcement that she is indeed running for president represents more than just the possibility that she could become the first woman president , or even the first former first lady to move back into the White House by general election . Should Clinton win the Democratic nomination next year , she 'd be the first former Cabinet secretary in 88 years to become a major party 's official choice for president . In 1928 , Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover won the Republican nomination and swept to victory over New York Gov . Al Smith . But things did n't go too well for Hoover once in office ( that whole Great Depression thing , you know ) , and since then , neither major party has nominated a current or former cabinet member . While a few former Cabinet secretaries have mounted campaigns ( such as former Treasury Secretary John Connally in 1980 , former Secretary of State Alexander Haig in 1988 and former Energy Secretary Bill Richardson in 2008 ) , they 've not gotten very far .
This turn to reporting – and away from opinion – would be a significant change for the network . A 2012 Pew Research Center analysis found that MSNBC 's programming was 85 % commentary/opinion and 15 % factual reporting . By contrast , both CNN and Fox News Channel had a relatively even balance : 46 % opinion vs. 54 % reporting for CNN , and 55 % opinion vs. 45 % reporting for Fox News .
Among industries , which refer to the kind of business conducted by an employer , immigrants accounted for more than a quarter of workers in the agriculture sector , the highest of any industry . Unauthorized immigrants ( 14 % ) and legal immigrants ( 15 % ) accounted for similar shares of agriculture workers .
Age is strongly correlated with social media usage : Those ages 18 to 29 have always been the most likely users of social media by a considerable margin . Today , 90 % of young adults use social media , compared with 12 % in 2005 , a 78-percentage point increase . At the same time , there has been a 69-point bump among those ages 30 - 49 , from 8 % in 2005 to 77 % today . While usage among young adults started to leveled off as early as 2010 , since then there has been a surge in usership among those 65 and older . In 2005 , 2 % of seniors used social media , compared with 35 % today .
Higher-income Americans are also more likely to have multiple devices that enable them to go online . Roughly two-thirds of adults living in high-earning households ( 64 % ) have home broadband services , a smartphone , a desktop or laptop computer and a tablet , compared with 18 % of those living in lower-income households .
Overall , 61 % of Americans say there is too much economic inequality in the country today , but views differ by political party and household income level . Among Republicans and those who lean toward the GOP , 41 % say there is too much inequality in the U.S. , compared with 78 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners , a Pew Research Center survey conducted in September 2019 found .
Republicans and GOP-leaning independents who rely most on President Donald Trump and his coronavirus task force for news about COVID-19 – one of 10 news sources the Center asked about – stand out in several ways in their attitudes about the outbreak . For example , 89 % of Republicans in this group say the U.S. has controlled the outbreak as much as it could have , compared with 59 % of Republicans who do n't rely most on Trump and the task force . Republicans who turn to Trump for coronavirus news are also more likely than other Republicans to say the pandemic has been overblown , that Trump is getting the facts about the outbreak right and that public health organizations are not getting the facts right , according to the survey , conducted Aug. 31-Sept. 7 as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . The poll was fielded before Trump tested positive for the virus and was hospitalized .
The average amount of weekday local TV news programming was increased slightly in 2018 , according to the RTDNA/Hofstra University survey . Local TV stations dedicated an average of 5.9 hours to news programming per weekday in 2018 , up slightly from 5.6 hours in 2017 .
Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to favor making it easy for every citizen to vote . More than eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 84 % ) say everything possible should be done to make it easy for everyone to vote , compared with a smaller share of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 48 % ) . A majority of Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 57 % ) say changing rules to make voting easier would make elections less secure , while 76 % of Democrats say this would not be the case .
China 's economy generates much less concern in the region than does its military . Still , half of Indians ( 50 % ) consider China 's growing economy a bad thing for their country , up significantly from 36 % in 2005 . Roughly four-in-ten Russians ( 39 % ) have a negative view of China 's economic strength , a figure basically unchanged from last year . Just over a quarter of Japanese ( 28 % ) take a negative view – a perhaps surprisingly low percentage , given the overall negativity of Japanese views toward China . Unsurprisingly , the Chinese themselves see their economic growth in a very positive light .
So far , the Ebola virus has not led to widespread concern about personal health : Just 11 % are very worried that they or someone in their family will be exposed to the virus , while another 21 % are somewhat worried . Two-thirds say they are either not too ( 37 % ) or not at all worried ( 30 % ) about contracting Ebola .
Concerns about terrorism are pervasive in Europe , and many see a link between the refugee issue and terrorism . When asked about a variety of international threats , publics in nine of 10 European countries surveyed named ISIS as their top concern , illustrating the strong worries Europeans have about terrorism in the wake of attacks in Paris , Brussels and elsewhere . ( The exception was Greece , where respondents cited global economic instability and global climate change ahead of ISIS . ) And importantly , many see a connection between terrorism and the wave of refugees into Europe from the Middle East and other regions over the past two years . Across 10 European nations , a median of 59 % said the influx of refugees would increase the likelihood of terrorism in their country .
So why are some smartphone users forgoing broadband ? Some 65 % of the smartphone-only Americans say the smartphone lets them do all they need to online , according to our 2015 survey . But while the smartphone-only clearly see the usefulness of the device , cost plays an important role in the decision not to subscribe to high-speed service at home . The availability of other access options outside the home also comes prominently into play . Public libraries may help fill the online gap among smartphone users who do n't subscribe to home broadband services . For public library users , those with smartphones only are somewhat more likely than those with home broadband , by a 34 % to 30 % margin , to use a library 's Wi-Fi , computers or internet connections to get online . Similarly , for those who engage in personal learning activities , the smartphone-only are more likely to do this at a high school , college or community college than those with broadband at home ( by a 40 % to 24 % margin ) .
When it comes to why a person is rich , the public overall is divided : 43 % of U.S. adults say it is more because they worked harder than most other people , while 42 % say it is more because they had greater advantages in life than most other people . Again , the two partisan coalitions have strikingly different views on this question . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) say a person is generally more likely to be rich because they worked harder than others , and just 18 % say a person 's wealth is more likely to be the result of having more advantages in life . By contrast , just 22 % of Democrats say wealth is generally more likely to be the result of working harder , while 62 % say it generally has more to do with advantages others did not have .
Views of the U.S. in Taiwan echo the views in six countries in the Asia-Pacific region included in a separate 2019 Pew Research Center survey . Around seven-in-ten or more hold favorable attitudes toward the U.S. in the Philippines , South Korea , Taiwan and Japan . Australians offer more tempered views , though half still hold the U.S. in a positive regard . More in India and Indonesia have favorable than unfavorable assessments , though sizable portions do not offer an opinion .
However , the public is not optimistic about the direction of the national economy over the next year . As many say that economic conditions will be worse in a year ( 22 % ) as say they will be better ( 22 % ) ; 54 % say the economy will be about the same a year from now . Republicans and Democrats differ significantly in their economic expectations . More Democrats expect the economy to be better in a year ( 31 % ) than worse ( 11 % ) ; 56 % say conditions will be the same . Among Republicans , 31 % say the economy will be worse in a year compared with 15 % who think it will be better ; 51 % say it will be about the same .
Among women , there is a significant age gap in views on this issue . A majority ( 60 % ) of women ages 65 and older say a woman should have children before entering politics , while only 30 % of women ages 18 to 29 say the same . Instead , four-in-ten women ages 18 to 29 say women should wait until they 're well established in their political careers to have children . Just one-quarter of women 65 and older say this is the best choice . Women 's views also differ by their level of education . About four-in-ten women without a four-year college degree ( 42 % ) say a woman has the best chance of success in politics if she has children early ; 57 % of women with a bachelor 's degree or higher say this . About one-third ( 32 % ) of less educated women , compared with 21 % of college graduates , say a woman who wants to reach high political office should wait until she is well established in her career to have children . Women who are mothers themselves have somewhat different views on this than women who do n't have young children . Mothers of children younger than 18 are more likely than other women to say a woman who aspires to high political office should wait until she 's established in her political career before having children . About one-third ( 36 % ) of mothers say a woman who wants to reach this type of position is better off waiting to have children , compared with 26 % of those without children under 18 .
Black and white Americans have profoundly different views on racial equality , and a new survey finds they also differ on the extent to which a person 's race can be a burden or a benefit . For blacks , the answer is clear : 65 % say `` it is a lot more difficult to be black in this country than it is to be white . '' Fewer than half as many whites ( 27 % ) agree . Among Hispanics , 37 % say it is lot more difficult to be black than white , which is higher than the share of whites who say this but far lower than the number of blacks who do so . Most Hispanics say white people benefit from advantages in society that blacks do not have ; 33 % say whites benefit a great deal from these circumstances , compared with 62 % of blacks and 13 % of whites .
One-in-seven U.S. adults ( 14 % ) say they have tested positive for COVID-19 or are `` pretty sure '' they have had it despite not receiving an official diagnosis , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Aug. 3 to 16 . The survey also finds a sharp increase since the spring in the share of Americans who say they know someone else who has been hospitalized or died due to COVID-19 .
The Pakistani military receives an extremely high level of public support . Fully 87 % give the military positive ratings , an eight percentage point increase from 2013 . Six-in-ten or more also say the media ( 68 % ) , religious leaders ( 64 % ) , Prime Minister Sharif ( 62 % ) and the national government ( 60 % ) are having a good influence on the way things are going in Pakistan .
However , a year earlier , fewer Americans correctly answered a basic question about the court 's ruling on the Affordable Care Act . Despite a lengthy buildup to the court 's ruling and high public interest in the case , just 55 % knew that the court had upheld most provisions of the ACA ; 15 % said the court had rejected most parts of the law , while 30 % said they did n't know .
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) is seen more favorably than not across 10 member states and Sweden . A median of 60 % across these 10 countries have a favorable view of the political and military alliance , compared with a median of 30 % who have an unfavorable opinion . This is in keeping with previous Pew Research Center surveys , which found that NATO was seen in a favorable light across most member countries . Half or more people across all 10 NATO countries surveyed have a positive view of the organization , ranging from a high of 79 % in Denmark to 50 % in France . Among Americans , 57 % have a favorable view of NATO , with only 25 % expressing an unfavorable opinion ( 17 % did not give a response ) . In five countries , about a third or more hold unfavorable opinions of NATO . The Spanish have the most unfavorable views among those surveyed : 43 % have a negative opinion of the organization .
Opinion also differs across party lines . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) see stricter environmental laws as worth the cost , while a majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 58 % ) say stricter environmental regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy .
Overwhelming majorities of Republican voters in each of these groups now prefer Trump to Clinton in a general election matchup . However , the intensity of that support varies . Nearly all of those who were loyal supporters of Trump since December ( 98 % ) say they will vote for him against Clinton – and 91 % are certain they will do so . By contrast , a smaller share of voters who did not support Trump in any of these three surveys back him in the general election : 79 % do so , and only 53 % of those in this group say they are `` certain '' they will vote for Trump over Clinton .
For example , across the eight European nations polled , a median of only 53 % expressed confidence in banks and financial institutions . This trust varied by region : While about half or more in each of the five northern European countries surveyed said they trust banks , only 18 % in Spain , 29 % in Italy and 39 % in France said the same .
The 2008 presidential campaign began much earlier than usual , but public interest in the campaign is at most only modestly higher than in previous campaigns . While Democrats are following the campaign more closely than at the same stage in previous primary contests , Republicans are no more engaged than in the past , resulting in a sizable partisan gap in campaign interest .
Spanish is , by far , the most spoken non-English language in the U.S . The next most spoken non-English languages are Chinese ( with 2.8 million speakers ) , Hindi , Urdu or other Indic languages ( 2.2 million ) , French or French Creole ( 2.1 million ) , and Tagalog ( 1.7 million ) .
For the second week in a row , the plight of six miners trapped in a Utah mine dominated public interest . Though coverage of the miners fell off significantly from the previous week , 32 % of the public paid very close attention to the story and roughly the same proportion ( 34 % ) said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . News of the trapped miners and efforts to rescue them accounted for 7 % of the national newshole last week , down from 13 % the previous week . Americans continued to pay close attention to news from Iraq last week , while media coverage of events there remained relatively low . War news was followed very closely by one-in-three Americans ( 33 % ) and 16 % said this was the story they followed most closely . Interest in the war is largely unchanged from the previous week when 36 % were following news from Iraq very closely .
The NSA 's data surveillance programs undoubtedly played a large role in Brazil 's sour opinions of the U.S . When asked whether they found it suitable for the American government to monitor the communications of Brazil 's leaders , more than eight-in-ten Brazilians ( 83 % ) said this practice was unacceptable . Brazilians also voiced strong opposition to monitoring American citizens ( 84 % unacceptable ) and Brazilian citizens ( 94 % ) .
The pattern of opinion on the question of whether White people benefit from societal advantages Black people do not have is largely parallel , with a larger share of voters now saying that White people benefit a great deal from advantages in society that Black people do n't have . While Biden 's supporters are substantially more likely to say that White people have advantages than Clinton supporters were in 2016 ( 59 % today , 40 % then ) , just 5 % of Trump supporters say this today – little different than the 4 % who said this in 2016 .
Around two-thirds of police officers ( 68 % ) said in 2016 that the demonstrations over the deaths of black people during encounters with law enforcement were motivated to a great extent by anti-police bias ; only 10 % said ( in a separate question ) that protesters were primarily motivated by a genuine desire to hold police accountable for their actions . Here as elsewhere , police officers ' views differed by race : Only about a quarter of white officers ( 27 % ) but around six-in-ten of their black colleagues ( 57 % ) said such protests were motivated at least to some extent by a genuine desire to hold police accountable .
Three-quarters of voters ( 75 % ) can correctly identify Illinois as the state Obama represented in the U.S. Senate , while 60 % identify Massachusetts as the state in which Romney served as governor . Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) know that Bain Capital is the company Romney once headed .
Along with examining the general ways in which teens interact and communicate with their friends , this report documents how and where teens interact with the friends who are closest to them . These `` close friend '' relationships loom large in the day-to-day social activities of teens ' lives , as 59 % of teens are in touch with their closest friend on a daily basis ( with 41 % indicating that they get in touch `` many times a day '' ) .
Nearly two-thirds of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 65 % ) say they would prefer to live in a community where houses are larger and farther apart , but schools , stores and restaurants are several miles away . The ideological differences in community preferences are stark , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in September among 9,895 U.S. adults . Conservative Republicans are about twice as likely as liberal Democrats to prefer a community where the houses are larger and more widely spaced ( 71 % vs. 35 % ) . These overall patterns of opinion are little changed from 2017 .
In addition to the broadly negative assessments of current economic conditions , few in the countries surveyed are hopeful things will get better in the next year . A median of 35 % think the economic situation in their country will improve in the next 12 months , while nearly half ( 46 % ) expect conditions to worsen and 19 % think nothing will change .
People who like the National Front are more skeptical of globalization . Marine Le Pen launched her presidential campaign in February with a speech decrying globalization , and as the 2016 survey showed , the belief that involvement in the global economy has been a bad thing for France is more common among those with a favorable opinion of the National Front .
About seven-in-ten officers ( 71 % ) who are frequently angry and frustrated agree that aggressive tactics are more useful than a courteous approach in some parts of their community . By contrast , about half of officers who are not frequently angry or frustrated say the same ( 48 % ) .
Of course , today 's announcement could have a major impact on public opinion – it 's likely that FJP supporters will react negatively to the ultimatum – but it is clear that the military comes into this crisis with a stronger public image than many of the country 's key political players . For example , the March survey found mixed views regarding the nation 's largest political parties . About half ( 52 % ) had a favorable opinion of the FJP , while 44 % expressed a negative view . Meanwhile , ratings for both the NSF ( 45 % favorable , 52 % unfavorable ) and al-Nour ( 40 % favorable , 52 % unfavorable ) were on balance negative .
Overall , concerns about global poverty trail worries about the overall global economy . A median of 53 % say that global poverty poses a major threat to their country . The French and Spanish show the greatest concern , with about three-quarters in each country describing global poverty as a major threat .
But the island 's population decline has accelerated in recent years . Over a two-year period between 2011 and 2013 , Puerto Rico 's net population decreased by 50,000 people annually . Job-related reasons were cited by 42 % of those leaving . The population decline has included young people . Enrollment in Puerto Rico 's elementary schools and high schools has declined 40 % over the past decade , the report said .
When asked about the British role in the world today , European publics tend to believe it is static or in decline . Half or more in the Netherlands , France , Germany and Sweden think the UK plays a less important role than a decade ago . No more than about quarter in any country say the UK 's status has improved . In the UK itself , 39 % say their country 's position in the world has diminished in the last 10 years . These views are largely unchanged since 2016 .
Survey respondents were read a list of positive and negative characteristics , and for each one , were asked whether it describes Donald Trump . Around the globe , people associate a number of negative characteristics with the U.S. leader . Most say he is arrogant , intolerant and dangerous , while few think of him as well-qualified or as someone who cares about ordinary people . Describing Trump as charismatic is more common , although global publics on balance do not think of him as charismatic either . They do , however , see Trump as a strong leader – a median of 55 % across the nations polled describe him this way .
The public is divided over President Obama 's recent executive action that expands the number of undocumented immigrants permitted to stay and work in the U.S. At the same time , Americans continue to broadly support a pathway to legal status for people in this country illegally . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY , conducted Dec. 3 - 7 among 1,507 adults , finds that 70 % say there should be a way for undocumented immigrants to stay in the country legally , if they meet certain requirements . Most of those who support legal status think there should be a way for unauthorized immigrants to become citizens ( 43 % overall ) , while 24 % say the path should only include permanent residency . These opinions are little changed from October .
And while it 's relatively rare for partisans to switch parties at all , this was more common among the subset of Republicans who had disagreed with the tea party or had no opinion . Among the small subset of those who identified with or leaned to the GOP in late 2015 and had disagreed with the tea party in 2014 or 2015 , 15 % identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic in 2018 . A similar share ( 16 % ) of those who had expressed no opinion of the tea party in 2014 or 2015 had switched loyalties to the Democratic Party by 2018 .
Generally , the public has the most confidence in the way K-12 public school principals , military leaders and police officers operate when it comes to caring about people , providing fair and accurate information to the public and handling resources responsibly . Some 84 % think principals care about the students they serve `` some of the time '' or `` all or most of the time , '' 79 % think police officers care about them at that level of frequency , and 73 % have the same level of confidence in military leaders . The public places somewhat lower – but still relatively high – levels of confidence in religious leaders , journalists and local elected officials . Members of Congress and leaders of technology companies do not have the same level of public confidence when it comes to several performance attributes . For instance , 48 % of adults think tech firm bosses care about people `` all or most of the time '' or `` some of the time , '' and 50 % feel that way about members of Congress . Similarly , 46 % think members of Congress provide fair and accurate information that often , and 61 % think this about leaders of tech firms . Some 47 % think members of Congress handle resources responsibly at least some of the time .
While Slovakia is majority Catholic ( 63 % ) , around seven-in-ten Czechs ( 72 % ) are religiously unaffiliated – the highest share of unaffiliated adults in 34 European countries surveyed by the Center . In addition , far more people in Slovakia than in the Czech Republic say they believe in God ( 69 % and 29 % , respectively ) . The Czech Republic 's largely secular religious landscape is a result of dramatic declines over time in the share of adults who identify as Catholic . In a survey conducted in 1991 by the Times Mirror Center for the People & Press , Pew Research Center 's predecessor organization , 44 % of Czech speakers in Czechoslovakia identified as Catholic . Around half that many ( 21 % ) identify as Catholic in the Czech Republic today . In addition to being predominantly Catholic , Slovaks also are consistently more religiously observant than Czechs . For instance , there is at least a 20-percentage-point difference between the two nations in the shares who say they pray daily ( 31 % of Slovaks vs. 9 % of Czechs ) and attend religious services at least monthly ( 31 % vs. 11 % ) . And Slovaks are more likely to say religion in very important in their lives ( 23 % vs. 7 % ) .
While people are concerned about the current bilateral economic relationship and increasingly see China as a potential adversary , they do not necessarily think China 's growing economy is bad for the United States . More Americans say China 's growing economy is good for the U.S. than that it is bad ( 50 % vs. 41 % , respectively ) . But , when it comes to China 's increasing military strength , opinion is more uniformly critical : 81 % of Americans think China 's growing military power is bad for the U.S .
In addition to the national government , the military is also seen in a favorable light , with nearly three-in-four ( 73 % ) saying it is having a good influence on the way things are going in the country . This represents a rebound from 2011 , when 62 % said the military was having a positive impact . Views of the court system and police are not as positive . Less than half of Mexicans see the courts ( 44 % ) and the police ( 38 % ) as having a good influence on the way things are going in the country . A year ago , opinions of the courts and police were even more negative , with only about three-in-ten giving either institution a positive rating .
Differences in race and ethnicity account for some of these disparities , since urban areas have a larger share of black residents , who are typically less likely to be married than other racial groups . Even so , the marriage gap across community types remains when looking only at whites : 49 % of urban whites are married , compared with 53 % of suburban whites and 54 % of rural whites . And among blacks , those living in suburban areas are somewhat more likely to be married ( 32 % ) than those living in rural ( 27 % ) or urban ( 26 % ) areas .
9 Trump 's restrictions on immigration are more popular among those who support right-wing populist parties in Europe . When asked whether they approve of Trump 's policy to allow fewer immigrants in the U.S. , people who support National Rally in France , Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) in Germany and Sweden Democrats in Sweden are at least 40 percentage points more likely than nonsupporters to express approval . This stark difference between populist supporters and non-populist supporters appears in many European countries and extends to opinions about Trump himself , as well as to his policy of building a wall between the U.S. and Mexico .
Nearly a third ( 32 % ) cite the Penn State scandal as their most closely followed story . This story accounted for 17 % of coverage last week , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Another way of looking at youth employment , or the lack thereof , is by focusing on `` NEETs '' – that is , young people who are neither employed nor in education or training . In 2018 , 14.8 % of all Americans ages 16 to 29 – or about 9 million young people – were NEETs . In 2013 , the first year for which comparable data is available , there were about 11 million NEETs in the U.S. , or 18.5 % of the 16-to-29 population . The Center 's 2016 analysis found that in the U.S. , the NEET youth population is more female than male ( 57 % to 43 % ) . Two-thirds of U.S. NEETs have a high-school education or less , and black and Hispanic 16- to 29-year-olds were more likely than whites and Asians to be NEETs .
Meanwhile , Americans continue to track news about the still-struggling economy closely . A quarter say this was the story they followed more closely than any other last week . Another 19 % say they followed the continuing financial troubles of U.S. automakers General Motors and Chrysler most closely . The media also maintained their focus on the economy . According to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , reporting on the economic crisis accounted for 13 % of the newshole last week . That made it the leading story , though coverage of the horrific shooting at the U.S . Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington was not far behind ( 11 % ) .
Students throughout the United States and Europe face many similar tasks throughout their education , from preparing for exams to writing papers . But there are glaring differences when it comes to foreign language education – or lack thereof – and the result is that far lower shares of American students study a foreign language . Learning a foreign language is a nearly ubiquitous experience for students throughout Europe , driven in part by the fact that most European countries have national-level mandates for formally studying languages in school . No such national standard exists in the U.S. , where requirements are mostly set at the school district or state level . Overall , a median of 92 % of European students are learning a language in school . Most primary and secondary school students across Europe study at least one foreign language as part of their education , according to Eurostat , the statistics arm of the European Commission . Of the 29 European nations for which data are available , 24 have a foreign language learning rate of at least 80 % , with 15 of those reaching 90 % or more of students enrolled in language courses . In three of the four countries with the smallest student populations – Luxembourg , Malta and Liechtenstein – 100 % of students are reported to be learning a foreign language .
U.S. Catholics are more likely than the general public to have a positive assessment of Francis . About three-quarters of Catholics ( 77 % ) now view the pope favorably , which is 10 percentage points lower than the share who did so in January 2017 ( 87 % ) but not statistically different from the ratings recorded in January or September 2018 . ( Even though the 2018 and 2020 surveys produced different estimates of the share of Catholics who view Pope Francis favorably , the differences between the current survey and each of the surveys conducted in 2018 do not pass a test of statistical significance . )
About four-in-ten Americans express support for the Black Lives Matter movement , but blacks are considerably more likely to do so than whites or Hispanics . About two-thirds of blacks ( 65 % ) say they strongly or somewhat support the movement , compared with 40 % of whites and 32 % of Hispanics .
This pattern is different from that of Latinos in other parts of the country . For example , in California , the state with the largest Hispanic population , 30 % say they prefer `` Hispanic '' and 17 % say they prefer the term `` Latino . '' In Florida , results are similar—31 % prefer `` Hispanic '' and 17 % prefer `` Latino . '' The pattern for New York and all other states is nearly the same .
Some space experts argue that the life support systems required to sustain astronauts on a long interplanetary journey would be so expensive that it would be more cost-effective to send robotic probes .1 With regards to future expeditions into space , a majority of Americans say they would consider it essential that humans , not solely robots , make the trip . Overall , 58 % of U.S. adults believe it is essential to include the use of human astronauts in the U.S. space program , while 41 % say astronauts are not essential .
Across the political spectrum , few people think that big donors do not command more influence than others : Only about a quarter of those in both parties say this describes the country well . But Democrats are more likely than Republicans ( 50 % vs. 35 % ) to say this statement describes the country not at all well .
There has long been a sizable gender gap in leaned party identification . Men are divided ( 44 % Democratic , 43 % Republican ) . In 2008 , however , Democrats held a nine-point lead in leaned party identification among men ( 47 % to 38 % ) . Since 1990 , women have been consistently more likely than men to identify as Democrats or lean Democratic ( 52 % to 36 % in 2014 ) . Back to top
Taking the median percentages across the 28 countries surveyed in both 2007 and 2014 , there has been a shift toward concerns about religious and ethnic hatred as the world 's top problem , especially in the Middle East . Meanwhile , in Europe , more publics now see inequality as the world 's top problem compared to seven years ago , before the Great Recession and Eurocrisis . Overall , in the 28 countries surveyed in 2007 and 2014 , religious and ethnic hatred , along with inequality , are seen as the most pressing issues for the world , with the spread of nuclear weapons not far behind . Fewer people within these countries say pollution and AIDS are the biggest threat .
Westerners ' views of Muslims were more mixed . A median of 50 % across four Western European countries , the U.S. and Russia called Muslims violent and a median of 58 % called them `` fanatical , '' but fewer used negative words like greedy , immoral or selfish . A median of just 22 % of Westerners said Muslims are respectful of women , but far more said Muslims are honest ( median of 51 % ) and generous ( 41 % ) .
While they 're spending more time with their children , many dads feel they 're not doing enough . Most dads ( 63 % ) said in a 2017 survey that they spend too little time with their kids , compared with 35 % of mothers who said the same . Among both dads and moms who said they spend too little time with their kids , work obligations were cited most often as the main reason .
In 2018 , 144 local TV stations changed hands at a cost of $ 8.8 billion , as annually reported by BIA Advisory Services . This is up from $ 4.7 billion across 107 stations that experienced changes in ownership in 2017 . )
The Center 's study focuses on the U.S. public 's reactions to three emerging technologies that could fundamentally improve people 's health , cognitive abilities or physical capacities . The specific examples were gene editing to give a healthy baby a much reduced risk of serious diseases and conditions over their lifetime ; implanting a computer chip in the brain to give a healthy person a much improved ability to concentrate and process information ; and a transfusion with synthetic blood to give healthy people much improved speed , strength and stamina . Thus , it may be surprising in light of all that promise to see that Americans are largely cautious about using emerging technologies in ways that push human capacities beyond what 's been possible before . Among the findings from the survey of 4,726 U.S. adults conducted March 2 - 28 , 2016 :
The weeks since Biden 's victory have been marked by the Trump campaign 's frantic and thus far unsuccessful attempts to challenge the election results in several states . Voters express much more positive views of Biden 's conduct since the election than Trump 's – and 57 % say the Trump campaign 's legal challenges to the voting and ballot counting process should end . A majority of voters ( 62 % ) say Biden 's post-election conduct has been excellent or good , while just half as many ( 31 % ) give Trump positive ratings for his conduct since the election . About seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) view Trump 's conduct as only fair or poor , with a 54 % majority rating it poor .
The pattern was very similar in the 2010 primaries , based on voter records , but the estimated level of turnout is considerably lower than 2014 self-reports ( 25 % of those matched to the voter file were recorded as voting in a primary ) . Consistent conservatives again stand out , with 48 % recorded as having voted in a primary in 2010 , compared with 32 % among consistent liberals , 29 % among those with mostly conservative views , 22 % among those with consistent liberal views and just 14 % among those with mixed views .
Among registered voters who have seen or heard campaign ads , 53 % say they generally do not pay attention , while 46 % do pay attention to them . In this regard , Republicans and Democrats have something to agree on : About half of each group ( 51 % of Democrats , 48 % of Republicans ) say they do not pay attention to campaign commercials ; independents are more likely than partisans to disregard campaign ads ( 59 % pay no attention ) .
Smaller percentages of possible Democratic primary voters would be more inclined to support a candidate who wants to cut the size of large banks and financial institutions ( 48 % more likely , 16 % less likely ) and expand U.S. trade agreements with other nations ( 45 % , 19 % ) . And while 41 % of possible Democratic voters say they would be more likely to support a candidate who backs the Iran nuclear agreement , 27 % would be less likely to favor a candidate who takes this position .
Americans have a favorable opinion of NASA . In a January 2015 survey , 68 % of Americans expressed a favorable view of NASA , similar to that of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention among the eight federal agencies we asked about . ( Seven-in-ten had a favorable view of the CDC . ) This was in line with similar favorable ratings for NASA in the past .
Publics in the U.S. and Britain are the strongest supporters of the idea that use of military force is sometimes necessary , with 75 % of Americans and 70 % of those in Britain holding that view . In Spain , 62 % say use of force is sometimes necessary while Germans are evenly divided with half saying the use of force is sometimes necessary and half saying it is not .
Opinions about the U.S. response are especially negative in South Korea , Denmark , Germany and Belgium . In each of these countries , around nine-in-ten adults say the U.S. response to COVID-19 has been bad , including roughly two-thirds in South Korea ( 66 % ) and Belgium ( 64 % ) who say it has been very bad . People outside the U.S. rate America 's response to COVID-19 more negatively than the response of their own country , the World Health Organization , the European Union and – in most cases – China . In all 13 countries surveyed this summer , people see the U.S. response to the coronavirus outbreak as worse than the response of their own country , the WHO and the EU . And in all but one country , Japan , people see America 's response more negatively than that of China . ( In Japan , 15 % of adults say the U.S. has done a good job , while 16 % say the same about China . )
More than half of immigrants ( 54 % ) said their children will be better off financially than they are , compared with 39 % of the U.S. born . Meanwhile , about half of Hispanics ages 30 to 49 ( 51 % ) and those 50 and older ( 47 % ) said so , compared with 39 % of Hispanics ages 18 to 29 .
Republicans are divided in their views , reflecting internal ideological differences . Half of Republicans and Republican leaners do not want the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade ; nearly as many ( 48 % ) would like to see the decision overturned . By 61 % to 37 % , conservative Republicans say they would like Roe v. Wade to be overturned . Moderate and liberal Republicans take the opposite view : 70 % do not want the Supreme Court to overturn the decision , while just 27 % say they want this to happen .
Additionally , a median of 29 % of mobile owners in these 11 emerging economies say they have frequently or occasionally experienced problems finding information online in their preferred language . This problem ranges from 17 % of mobile owners in Jordan to 37 % in South Africa .
But politics is not the only factor related to these perceptions . Americans who live close to a coastline are more likely than those who live farther away to say climate change is affecting their local community . Seven-in-ten Americans who live within 25 miles of a coastline say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , versus 57 % of those who live 300 miles or more from a coast . Large majorities of Democrats – both near and far from a coast – say climate change is affecting their local community at least some . But Democrats who live within 25 miles of a coastline are more likely than Democrats who live 300 miles or more inland to say climate change is impacting their community a great deal ( 39 % vs. 29 % ) .
In a 2015 study that used a broader definition of the term – one that took into account how adults described their own race as well as the racial background of their parents and grandparents – Pew Research Center estimated that 6.9 % of the U.S. adult population could be considered multiracial . The 2015 study also explored the attitudes and experiences of these adults , revealing the complexities of multiracial identity . Here are five key findings from that report :
The public continues to pay attention to economic and financial news , including last week 's big rise in the stock market . More than a quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other story last week . Another 17 % say they followed changes in the stock markets most closely , making those stories the two most closely followed of the week . Meanwhile , reporting about the economy took up 33 % of the newshole , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . ( Including stock market-related stories , economic coverage totaled 35 % of all coverage . )
Obama is very popular in Africa ( and so was George W. Bush ) . Obama 's ratings in sub-Saharan Africa are overwhelmingly positive . This year , we surveyed nine countries in the region , and big majorities in each nation express confidence in the American leader . Of course , his predecessor was also largely popular in the region ; the rise in anti-Americanism that occurred in many parts of the world during the Bush era was largely absent in Africa .
The disparate trends in the jobs recovery from 2009 to 2011 reflect the rapidly changing demographics of the American workforce . Although jobs growth for Hispanics and Asians was more rapid than for other groups , it merely kept pace with the growth in their working-age ( ages 16 and older ) populations . The slower rate of jobs growth for whites and blacks reflects the relatively slow growth in their populations . Thus , the share of each group 's population that is employed , the employment rate , has barely risen since the end of the recession , according to new Pew Research Center analysis of government data .
Moreover , only about a third ( 34 % ) say the campaign has `` focused on important policy debates , '' while 58 % say it has not . Democrats and independents are more likely than Republicans to say the campaign has not focused on key policy debates . By roughly two-to-one , Democrats ( 63 % to 29 % ) and independents ( 62 % to 32 % ) say the campaign has not focused on important policy debates . Republicans are divided – 46 % say the campaign has concentrated on important policy debates while 44 % say it has not .
The population of Puerto Rico stood at 3.2 million in 2018 , its lowest point since 1979 and down sharply from 2017 , when hurricanes Maria and Irma hit the island , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . The 3.9 % decline in 2018 represents the largest year-to-year drop since 1950 , the first year for which annual data is available .
Currently , 21 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they can trust government , compared with 14 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Throughout Obama 's tenure , more Democrats than Republicans reported trusting the government , though that has flipped since Trump 's election . Since the 1970s , trust in government has been consistently higher among members of the party that controls the White House than among the opposition party . However , Republicans have been much more reactive than Democrats to changes in political power . Republicans have expressed much higher levels of trust during Republican than during Democratic presidencies , while Democrats ' attitudes have tended to be more consistent , regardless of which party controls the White House .
Several major American sports leagues have yet to feature an active , openly gay male player , and LGBT Americans have negative feelings toward pro sports leagues in general . A Pew Research survey of LGBT adults conducted last year in the U.S. found that just 4 % saw pro sports leagues as friendly toward LGBT people , while a majority ( 59 % ) saw the leagues as unfriendly and 36 % saw them as neutral .
In the wake of Donald Trump 's 2016 election victory , an overwhelming majority of those who said they had voted for him had `` warm '' feelings for him . By this spring , more than a year into Trump 's presidency , the feelings of these same Trump voters had changed very little . In March , 82 % of those who reported voting for Trump – and whom researchers were able to verify through voting records as having voted in 2016 – said they felt `` warmly '' toward Trump , with 62 % saying they had `` very warm '' feelings toward him . Their feelings were expressed on a 0 - 100 `` feeling thermometer . '' A rating of 51 or higher is `` warm , '' with 76 or higher indicating `` very warm '' feelings .
3 Young households with student debt are much more likely to have car loans and credit card debt , too . And their typical total indebtedness ( including mortgage debt , vehicle debt , credit cards , as well as student debt ) is almost twice the overall debt load of similar households with no student debt .
Seventy years after the end of the Chinese Civil War , about two-thirds of adults in Taiwan identify as just Taiwanese . On the other hand , about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) see themselves as both Taiwanese and Chinese . The question asks respondents whether they consider themselves Taiwanese , Chinese or both . A mere 4 % see themselves as only Chinese . These findings are consistent with other polls showing that people in Taiwan increasingly identify only as Taiwanese as opposed to both Taiwanese and Chinese or solely Chinese . Adults in Taiwan across all age groups are likely to see themselves as Taiwanese . At least six-in-ten in each group claim a Taiwanese identity , while no more than about a third hold a mixed or solely Chinese identity . Still , those ages 18 to 29 are more than 20 percentage points more likely than those 50 and older to see themselves as Taiwanese . They are also less than half as likely than the oldest age group to see themselves as both Taiwanese and Chinese .
Roughly eight in ten ( 81 % ) of Millennials have broadband at home , as well as 73 % of Gen X . The Silent Generation and the G.I . Generation are by far the least likely groups to have high-speed internet access , as only 44 % of adults ages 65 - 73 and 20 % of adults over the age of 74 have broadband at home . Of all the age groups , this cohort of adults over 65 are also the least likely to see the lack of home broadband as a major disadvantage , as detailed in our recent report , `` Home Broadband 2010 . ''
Average minutes per visit for the top 50 U.S. daily newspapers , based on circulation , is about 2 1/3 minutes in Q4 2018 . This is down 5 % from Q4 2017 .
A good education and hard work are most often seen as the keys to getting ahead in life . This view is especially prevalent in emerging and developing nations , where most see economic opportunity expanding . Still , many also believe success can be determined by things outside a person 's control , such as luck or having a wealthy family .
As one might expect , working in science , technology , engineering and math ( STEM ) – or earning a postgraduate degree in a STEM field – is closely related to liking science and math classes in grades K-12 . But many of those who work in other occupations or have a degree in a different field liked one or both of these subjects as well .
President Obama 's plan for a military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria is drawing public support . And , in a rare display of bipartisanship , majorities of both Republicans ( 64 % ) and Democrats ( 60 % ) approve of the president 's plan . The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 11 - 14 among 1,003 adults , finds that overall , 53 % approve of Obama 's plan , while 29 % disapprove ; 19 % do not offer an opinion .
These laws are largely in line with Western European attitudes on the issue . Most non-Muslim adults in Western Europe favor at least some restrictions on the religious clothing of Muslim women who live in their country , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of 15 countries in the region . The prevailing view ( a regional median of 50 % ) is that Muslim women should be allowed to wear religious clothing as long as it does not cover their face . Fewer ( regional median of 23 % ) say Muslim women should not be allowed to wear any religious clothing . And a regional median of 25 % take the more permissive view that Muslim women should be allowed to wear any religious clothing they choose . In the United Kingdom , for example , 53 % of non-Muslim adults say Muslim women in the UK should be allowed to wear religious clothing as long as it does not cover their face , while 19 % favor restricting all religious clothing . Roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) support allowing Muslim women to wear the religious clothing of their choosing .
The general public is closely divided in its views about the role of religious organizations in scientific policy debates . Overall , half of adults say churches should express their views on policy decisions about scientific issues , while 46 % say churches should keep out of such matters . White evangelical Protestants and black Protestants are more inclined than people in other major religious groups to say churches should express their views on such topics . A majority of those with no religious affiliation say churches should keep out of science policy debates .
For the first time since the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project began systematically tracking smartphone adoption , a majority of Americans now own a smartphone of some kind . Our definition of a smartphone owner includes anyone who says `` yes '' to one—or both—of the following questions : Taken together , 61 % of cell owners said yes to at least one of these questions and are classified as smartphone owners . Because 91 % of the adult population now owns some kind of cell phone , that means that 56 % of all American adults are now smartphone adopters . One third ( 35 % ) have some other kind of cell phone that is not a smartphone , and the remaining 9 % of Americans do not own a cell phone at all .
Regarding the job situation , three-in-ten Democrats ( 30 % ) are hearing mostly good news about jobs , nearly double the share from February ( 16 % ) . By contrast , Republicans ' views are little changed since then and only 13 % say they are hearing mostly good news . Among independents , the percentage hearing mostly bad news about jobs has declined from 46 % in February to 31 % in the current survey .
Chinese President Xi Jinping is visiting France , Italy and Monaco this week to strengthen relations with potential European investment partners , though he does so at a time when EU countries lack confidence in him and do not embrace the idea of Chinese global leadership , according to a Pew Research Center survey . In all but one of the 10 European countries surveyed , majorities said in a spring 2018 survey that they had no confidence in Xi to do the right thing regarding world affairs . The Spanish were the most skeptical of him , with more than three-quarters ( 79 % ) lacking confidence , followed by the French ( 69 % ) , Greeks ( 64 % ) and Italians ( 64 % ) . A substantial portion of Europeans – roughly two-in-ten or more in Poland , Greece , Hungary and Italy – did not express an opinion on Xi .
Teens now spend about seven and a half hours a day engaged in leisure activities during the summer . While this still accounts for the bulk of their waking hours , it represents a 24-minute decline from a decade ago . This decline has been largely driven by a 22-minute drop in time spent socializing or going to entertainment or sporting events . On the flip side , teens now spend 18 more minutes a day in active pursuits such as playing sports or exercising compared with teens a decade ago . What has not changed substantially is the amount of time they spend on screens in the summer : Teens now devote more than three and a half hours a day to activities such as gaming , watching TV , surfing the web and watching videos – a figure that has ticked down only slightly in the past decade .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners , significantly more say abortion should be illegal ( 62 % ) than legal ( 36 % ) in all or most cases . Republicans are deeply split on this question by ideology : 77 % of conservative Republicans say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases ; just 22 % say it should be legal . By contrast , 57 % of moderate and liberal Republicans think abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with a smaller share ( 41 % ) who say it should be illegal .
Last week , the public continued to track a number of economic policy developments very closely . Final passage of the $ 787 billion economic stimulus legislation was the top story in terms of news interest . Roughly four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they followed final action on the economic stimulus bill very closely , while 35 % named this story as the news item they followed most closely – by far the highest percentage for any of the week 's stories .
Roughly three-quarters say that defending the country from terrorism ( 76 % ) and strengthening the economy ( 73 % ) should be top priorities for Congress and the new president . And two-thirds or more prioritize improving the educational system ( 69 % ) , improving the job situation ( 68 % ) and reducing health care costs ( 66 % ) .
American adults generally support making tuition free at public colleges and universities for all U.S. students , yet there are sizable partisan and demographic differences in views of tuition-free college . Among all U.S. adults , 63 % favor making tuition at public colleges free , including 37 % who strongly favor the proposal . Slightly more than a third oppose tuition-free college ( 36 % ) , with 21 % strongly opposed , according to a Pew Research Center conducted in January . Large shares of black ( 86 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 82 % ) favor making college free for all Americans , compared with 53 % of whites . And while 75 % of adults under age 30 favor this proposal , it draws support from only about half ( 47 % ) of those ages 65 and older .
Yet of those asked how difficult it would be to act on advice to quarantine if told they had the coronavirus , Americans express more varied views . Roughly three-in-ten adults say that it would be very ( 10 % ) or somewhat ( 22 % ) difficult to quarantine . Men are more likely than women to say so ( 35 % vs. 29 % ) , and younger adults are more likely to say it would be very or somewhat difficult to quarantine than those 65 and older . Education and income again play a role when it comes to the difficulty people might have in quarantining . Some 35 % of those with a high school diploma or less report it would be very or somewhat difficult to quarantine , compared with 29 % of those with a bachelor 's degree . And Americans are less likely to express difficulty as their income rises : 38 % of adults from households with lower incomes , 30 % of those from households in the middle income category and 26 % of those with higher incomes say it would be very or somewhat difficult to quarantine .
Despite public skepticism about scientists working in both areas , most Americans think scientists should have a major role in policy decisions . About two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Americans say climate scientists should have a major role in decision making about climate matters . Six-in-ten Americans ( 60 % ) think scientists should have a major role in policy decisions related to GM foods . Scientists are not the only group Americans support at the policymaking table : At least half of U.S. adults think the general public should have a major role in policy decisions on climate change ( 56 % ) and GM foods ( 57 % ) .
More than one-in-five voting members ( 22 % ) of the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate are racial or ethnic minorities , making the 116th Congress the most racially and ethnically diverse in history . There has been a long-running trend toward more racial and ethnic diversity on Capitol Hill : Each of the previous four Congresses broke the record set by the Congress before it .
In Pakistan , the Palestinian territories , Jordan , Malaysia and Senegal , roughly half or more of the full population says that laws in their country should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . By contrast , in Burkina Faso , Turkey , Lebanon and Indonesia , less than a quarter agree . And in many of these countries where non-Muslims make up a significant portion of the population , there are strong disagreements between major religious groups on this issue . For example , a 42 % plurality of Nigerians think laws should not be influenced by the Quran , while 27 % think laws should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . However , among Nigerian Muslims , 52 % say national laws should conform to Islamic law , compared with only 2 % among Nigerian Christians .
The disparity in race and ethnicity exists across all age groups . Non-Hispanic whites account for about three-fourths ( 74 % ) of newsroom employees ages 18 to 49 , and they represent 85 % among those 50 and older . These shares are lower among workers overall . When it comes to gender , however , younger newsroom employees look like U.S. employees overall . Newsroom employees ages 18 to 29 are just as likely as workers overall to be men ( 51 % in both groups ) . Among older workers , newsroom employees are disproportionately male : About two-thirds of newsroom employees ages 30 and older are men , compared with a little over half of all U.S. workers .
Republicans and Democrats also had sizable differences in opinions of how the Supreme Court should base its rulings . Among the public overall , a majority of Americans said the court should base its rulings on its understanding of what the Constitution means in current times ( 55 % ) ; fewer said it should base its rulings on what the Constitution `` meant as originally written '' ( 43 % ) . There were sizable differences within each partisan coalition on this question : 50 % of moderate or liberal Republicans said the high court should base rulings on the Constitution in context of current times , while fewer than half as many conservative Republicans said the same ( 21 % ) . Among Democrats , liberals ( 88 % ) were more likely than conservatives and moderates to say the court should base rulings more on current context.White adults were more likely than Black and Hispanic adults to say the Supreme Court should base its rulings on its understanding of what the Constitution means as originally written ; about half of White adults said this ( 48 % ) compared with smaller shares of Black ( 33 % ) and Hispanic ( 35 % ) adults .
As public sentiment about the economy changes , Japanese attitudes about the country 's strategic role in the world are evolving . For some time , there has been a robust public debate within Japan about whether Tokyo needs a military capacity and a willingness to engage in security operations commensurate with the country 's stature as the world 's third largest economy . But such ambitions have long been constrained by Japan 's post-World War II constitution . A majority of Japanese ( 56 % ) oppose changing their constitution so that Japan could officially have a military and declare war . But that opposition has declined by 11 percentage points since 2006 , when 67 % were against constitutional revision . Men ( 45 % ) are much more willing to support constitutional revision than are women ( 28 % ) .
Hillary Clinton won 66 % of Latino voters on Election Day , according to updated National Election Pool exit poll data , a level of Democratic support similar to 2008 , when 67 % of Hispanics backed Barack Obama . However , Clinton 's share of the Latino vote was lower than in 2012 , when 71 % of Latinos voted to re-elect Obama . While Clinton underperformed among Latinos compared with 2012 , Republican Donald Trump won 28 % of the Latino vote , a similar share to 2012 , when Mitt Romney won 27 % , and to 2008 , when John McCain won 31 % , according to exit polls . ( It is important to note that the national exit poll is a survey with an overall margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points for the national result . )
Most of the public says learning that a friend voted for Donald Trump or Hillary Clinton would not have any effect on their friendships . About one-in-five ( 19 % ) say that knowing a friend had voted for Trump would put a strain on their friendship ; 7 % say knowing a friend had voted for Clinton would strain their friendship .
The United Kingdom may soon become the first country to leave the European Union , pending the results of a June 23 referendum . As the vote nears , a new Pew Research Center survey highlights a key British complaint about the EU : Nearly two-thirds of Britons say they want the EU to return certain powers to national governments . Only 6 % want to transfer more powers to the Brussels-based institution .
Along with being the most popular social media site , Facebook users also visit the site with high levels of frequency . Fully 74 % of Facebook users say they visit the site daily , with around half ( 51 % ) saying they do several times a day . The share of Facebook users who visit the site on a daily basis is statistically unchanged compared with 2016 , when 76 % of Facebook users reported they visited the site daily . While the overall share of Americans who use Snapchat is smaller than that of Facebook , a similar share of Snapchat users ( 49 % ) say they use the platform multiple times per day . All told , a majority of Snapchat ( 63 % ) and Instagram ( 60 % ) users indicate that they visit these platforms on a daily basis . The share of Instagram users who visit the platform daily has increased slightly since 2016 when 51 % of Instagram users were daily visitors . ( Note : this is the first year the Center has specifically asked about the frequency of Snapchat use in a telephone poll . )
Following the Senate 's rejection of gun legislation last month , the public continues to overwhelmingly favor making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks . Nearly three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say that if the Senate bill is reintroduced , Congress should pass it .
Amid debates about the impact of privilege and inequality in the country , a Pew Research Center survey conducted in late 2018 asked U.S. adults how they would compare their advantages in life with those who are about their same age . Overall , 29 % said they have had more advantages in life than others their age ; 26 % felt they have had fewer advantages ; and 45 % said they have had about as many advantages .
Environmental protection draws more support in principle than when the issue of potential costs is raised . Among the public , 71 % said the country `` should do whatever it takes to protect the environment , '' according to a January-March 2014 survey . But a smaller majority ( 56 % ) said `` stricter environmental laws and regulations are worth the cost . '' Nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) said tougher environmental laws and regulations cost too many jobs and hurt the economy . There are sharp partisan divides on these questions . Democrats overwhelmingly , by eight-to-one , said that the country should do whatever it takes to safeguard the environment while Republicans are almost evenly divided . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Democrats believe stricter environmental laws are worth the cost compared with just 37 % of Republicans . Nearly six-in-ten Republicans ( 59 % ) said stricter environmental laws and regulations have a negative economic impact .
Roughly six-in-ten self-described urban residents ( 62 % ) say their local news media mainly cover the area they live in , while a majority of those who describe themselves as rural residents ( 57 % ) say the opposite is true – their local news media mostly cover some other area , a concern raised by many journalism watchers following newsroom cutbacks and media consolidation . Self-described suburbanites are more evenly split , according to the survey conducted Oct. 15-Nov. 8 , 2018 , among nearly 35,000 U.S. adults .
In the Pew Research Center 's most recent survey , conducted Oct. 3 - 6 , most Republicans and Republican leaners who agree with the Tea Party ( 64 % ) approved of how GOP leaders were handling negotiations on the government shutdown . Most other Republicans ( 61 % ) did not .
The regions of origin for immigrant populations residing in the U.S. have dramatically shifted since the passage of the 1965 Immigration and Naturalization Act . In 1960 , 84 % of immigrants living in the U.S. were born in Europe , Canada or other North American countries , while only 6 % were from Mexico , 4 % from Asia , 3 % from the rest of Latin America and 3 % from other areas . Immigrant origins now differ drastically , with European , Canadian and other North American immigrants making up only a small share of the foreign-born population ( 13 % ) in 2018 . Asians ( 28 % ) , Mexicans ( 25 % ) and other Latin Americans ( 25 % ) each make up about a quarter of the U.S. immigrant population , followed by 9 % who were born in another region .
A 46 % plurality of U.S. adults say Trump did something wrong regarding Ukraine and that it was enough to justify his removal from office , according to the Center 's survey . Another 28 % say Trump did something wrong but that it was not enough to warrant his removal , while 25 % say he did nothing wrong . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are far more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to believe that Trump did something wrong related to Ukraine and that it warranted his removal . Eight-in-ten Democrats say this , versus just 7 % of Republicans . Around four-in-ten Republicans ( 41 % ) say Trump did something wrong but that it was not enough to warrant his removal , while 51 % say he did nothing wrong .
On the other side of the ledger , majorities in 19 of the 24 countries had little or no confidence in the American president . In the four Western European countries surveyed , majorities without much confidence ranged from 81 % in Britain to 88 % in Spain . In the Middle East , majorities rose as high as 89 % in Turkey and Jordan . Since 2003 , confidence in Bush has fallen in eight of the 14 foreign countries where trend data are available . In the remaining six countries confidence has remained relatively low .
A recent Pew Research Center survey shows that neither world power has a clear advantage when it comes to the hearts and minds of people in Africa . Among the seven sub-Saharan African countries polled this year , at least six-in-ten in each nation say they have a favorable view of the U.S. , including roughly three-quarters or more in Kenya , Ghana , Tanzania and Senegal . Broad majorities also rate China positively . The one exception is South Africa – just 45 % express a favorable view of China , compared with 68 % for the U.S .
The nation 's immigrants are more settled today than they were in 1990 , when the share of those who had arrived within the past 10 years peaked at 44 % . Now , the amount of time that immigrants have spent in the U.S. has grown . In 2018 , 73 % of immigrants had lived in the U.S. for over 10 years , up from 56 % in 1990 ( but similar to the share in 1970 . )
Majorities of adults 30 years old and younger ( 57 % ) and ages 30 - 49 ( 54 % ) say they would rather have a bigger government providing more services . Fewer adults ages 50 - 64 ( 38 % ) and adults ages 65 and older ( 40 % ) say this . Those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more are much less likely than those with lower incomes to say they 'd prefer a bigger government that provides more services . Just about a third of those earning $ 75,000 or more ( 35 % ) say this , compared to 44 % of those with family incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 75,000 and nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of those making less than $ 30,000 a year .
Nearly nine-in-ten Americans ( 87 % ) agree with this idea when it comes to potentially embarrassing photos and videos . Majorities also think Americans should have a right to have personal financial data collected by a tax preparer ( 79 % ) and personal medical data collected by a health care provider ( 69 % ) deleted by the organization or person who holds the information . Far fewer ( 36 % ) think personal data collected by law enforcement – like criminal records or mugshots – should be able to be deleted , which tracks with the findings around the removal of such data from public online search results .
Overall , 68 % of U.S. adults say childhood vaccinations should be required , while 30 % say parents should be able to decide . Among all age groups , young adults are more likely to say vaccinating children should be a parental choice . Some 41 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say parents should be able to decide whether or not their child gets vaccinated ; only 20 % of adults 65 or older echo this opinion .
The survey also shows that roughly eight-in-ten evangelical Protestants ( 79 % ) have a favorable view of the Israeli people , as do seven-in-ten mainline Protestants and about two-thirds of Catholics . People in all three groups are far more likely to say they have a favorable view of the Israeli people than they are to say the same of the Palestinian people .
A large majority of Republican and Republican-leaning independents ( 72 % ) say Trump has a great deal or a fair amount of respect for the nation 's democratic institutions . By contrast , just 14 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say Trump has a great deal or a fair amount of respect for the nation 's institutions . Overwhelmingly , Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 86 % ) say that Trump has little or no respect for the country 's institutions and traditions .
In the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , anger toward the United States remains pervasive , although the level of hatred has eased somewhat and support for the war on terrorism has inched up . Osama bin Laden , however , is viewed favorably by large percentages in Pakistan ( 65 % ) , Jordan ( 55 % ) and Morocco ( 45 % ) . Even in Turkey , where bin Laden is highly unpopular , as many as 31 % say that suicide attacks against Americans and other Westerners in Iraq are justifiable . Majorities in all four Muslim nations surveyed doubt the sincerity of the war on terrorism . Instead , most say it is an effort to control Mideast oil and to dominate the world .
Though Jeb Bush is widely known by Republican voters , just 23 % say there is a good chance they would vote for him , while 41 % say there is some chance ; 25 % say there is no chance they would vote for the former Florida governor . Mike Huckabee has similar levels of both recognition and support among Republican voters .
Across 37 countries surveyed in the spring of 2017 , a median of 48 % say they closely follow news about the U.S. , compared with 50 % who do not . ( While interest in U.S. news is high in many countries , overall , people around the world follow national and local news more closely than international news . )
Blacks are more likely than either whites or Hispanics to say voting should be made as easy as possible for citizens : 79 % of blacks say this , while just 19 % say citizens should have to prove they really want to vote by registering ahead of time . Among whites , a much narrower majority ( 54 % ) support making voting as easy as possible for all citizens ( 44 % say citizens should prove they want to vote by registering ahead of time ) . By 64 % -35 % , most Hispanics support taking steps to make voting easy for all citizens .
Despite souring public sentiment about their domestic economy and some concern about Japan 's declining role on the world stage , the Japanese are outward looking . They believe that involvement in the global economy is good for the country and that Japan should help other nations , particularly developing ones , deal with their problems .
In nearly all countries polled , majorities oppose monitoring by the U.S. government of emails and phone calls of foreign leaders or their citizens . In contrast , Americans tilt toward the view that eavesdropping on foreign leaders is an acceptable practice , and they are divided over using this technique on average people in other countries . However , the majority of Americans and others around the world agree that it is acceptable to spy on suspected terrorists , and that it is unacceptable to spy on American citizens .
Homeowners ' interest in solar panels reflects both financial and environmental concerns . Nine-in-ten homeowners said they have installed or considered home solar panels in order to save money on utility bills and 87 % say they did so to help the environment . Fewer among this group ( 60 % ) say getting a solar tax investment credit is a reason they installed or considered installing solar power at home . A federal tax credit for solar projects , which was scheduled to expire at the end of this year , has since been extended five years for residential solar projects .
Support for the death penalty has long been divided by gender and race . In the new survey , about six-in-ten men ( 61 % ) say they are in favor of the death penalty and 34 % are opposed . Women 's views are more divided : 46 % favor the death penalty , while 45 % oppose it .
Voice assistants are present on a wide range of devices , but the most common way for Americans to use them is on a smartphone : 42 % of U.S. adults use voice assistants in this way . Some 14 % of the public has used a voice assistant on a computer or tablet , while 8 % say they use them on a stand-alone device such as an Amazon Echo or Google Home .
Most expect the European Union 's influence in world affairs to be unchanged by the pandemic . A majority of Americans say the EU will emerge from the pandemic with roughly the same amount of influence in world affairs as it had beforehand , while about a fifth think its position will improve and a similar share expect its power to decline .
Health care remains a top issue for voters ; 74 % say the issue will be very important to their vote this fall . Health care ranks in the top tier of issues included in a Pew Research Center April survey , just below the economy ( 86 % ) and jobs ( 84 % ) and matching the budget deficit ( 74 % ) .
But the educational `` gap '' in fertility has somewhat narrowed in the past two decades , driven by declining childlessness and a rise in larger families among highly educated moms . The share of mothers ages 40 to 44 with at least a master 's degree and three or more children increased from two decades ago , as the share with just one child declined . According to previous research by the Center , highly educated women are the only group with a declining share of one-child families and a rise in families of three or more .
People in the two countries have different views about what the levels of national defense spending should be in Europe . A plurality of Americans ( 45 % ) say European allies should increase their defense spending , while 32 % of Germans say the same about their own defense budget . In contrast , roughly half of Germans ( 51 % ) say Germany should maintain its current military budget , and 13 % want to spend less on their nation 's defense .
Economic System Still Seen at Risk . Most Americans continue to think the U.S. economic system is still vulnerable to the type of crisis that devastated the economy in the fall of 2008 . Currently , 63 % say the economic system is no more secure today than it was before the 2008 financial crisis , while only about a third of Americans ( 34 % ) say it is more secure . These attitudes are virtually unchanged from two years ago .
Eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) young adults ( those 18 - 29 ) say scrutiny of U.S. Muslims solely because of their religion should not be a part of the federal government 's efforts to prevent terrorism . And by about two-to-one ( 63 % vs. 30 % ) , those 30 to 49 years old also say this .
Older Republicans offer considerably different views than their younger counterparts . Four-in-ten Republicans ages 65 or older say fathers should n't be able to take leave from work following the birth or adoption of a child , compared with 20 % of Republicans ages 50 to 64 , 10 % of those 30 to 49 , and 14 % of those 18 to 29 . Age differences are relatively small among Democrats .
Not surprisingly , most Americans are aware that the U.S. housing market boomed in the early years of this century . More than seven-in-ten among the public ( 72 % ) say home prices have gone up in their areas in recent years — four times as many as those who say that prices have dropped . In that they are correct — at least until very recently .
Around the world , Catholics vary in their support for same-sex marriage and their acceptance of homosexuality in general , according to Pew Research Center surveys conducted in recent years . ( The Center does not have recent survey data on views about civil unions . ) In the United States , about six-in-ten Catholics ( 61 % ) said in a 2019 survey that they favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry . Same-sex marriage became legal across the U.S. following a Supreme Court ruling in 2015 . In Western Europe , large majorities of Catholics said in 2017 that they support legal same-sex marriage . That was the case in the Netherlands ( 92 % ) , the United Kingdom ( 78 % ) , France ( 74 % ) and Germany ( 70 % ) .
Millions of Baby Boomers retire each year from the U.S. labor force . But in the past year the number of retired Boomers increased more than in prior years , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of monthly labor force data . The recent increase in the share of Boomers who are retired is more pronounced among Hispanic and Asian American Boomers and those residing in the Northeast . This is 3.2 million more Boomers than the 25.4 million who were retired in the same quarter of 2019 . Until this year , the overall number of retired Boomers had been growing annually by about 2 million on average since 2011 ( the year the oldest Boomer reached age 65 ) , and the largest increase was 2.5 million between the third quarter of 2014 and 2015 .
About a third ( 34 % ) followed news about swine flu and its vaccine very closely , while 19 % say swine flu was their top story of the week . News coverage was comparatively modest , filling just 2 % of the newshole , according to PEJ .
Democratic voters , in particular , place value on candidates who will make compromises : 63 % say this , compared with 31 % who prioritize sticking to core values . Republican voters , by contrast , are more likely to value candidates who stick to their core values ( 57 % vs. 35 % ) .
And economists are also divided on just how to define and measure inequality . As Federal Reserve economist Arthur Kennickell wrote in a 2009 paper , `` ‘ Inequality ' may seem a simple term , but operationally it may mean many different things , depending on the point of view . '' Most researchers agree that wealth is more unevenly distributed than income , while consumption is less concentrated at the upper end than either wealth or income .
The NBC News national exit poll documented how Trump and his populist message disproportionately appealed to both white men and women living in rural America . A recent survey by Pew Research Center , conducted this spring in association with the Markle Foundation , illustrates the depth of their financial frustrations with the status quo on some key economic measures – anxieties that are more deeply felt by rural whites than by whites living in the nation 's cities or suburbs . The Pew Research Center survey , conducted May 25 to June 29 , 2016 , with a nationally representative sample of 5,006 adults , suggests that the broad economic concerns of rural white Americans align to a striking degree with several key issues that were among the cornerstones of the Trump campaign : jobs , immigrants and fears about an eroding standard of living . Moreover , these anxieties are more deeply felt among rural whites than among whites in the cities or suburbs . Among the issues :
8 Most YouTube users in the U.S. say they at least occasionally encounter false or troubling content on the platform . Roughly two-thirds of U.S. adult YouTube users ( 64 % ) say they at least sometimes encounter videos that seem obviously false or untrue while using the site , according to the 2018 survey . A similar share ( 60 % ) reported at least sometimes seeing videos that show people engaging in dangerous or troubling behavior .
Indeed , a majority of members of the national legislative bodies in five predominantly English-speaking countries have a Twitter account . But as is true among other types of Twitter users , a modest number of active tweeters produce an outsize share of legislative tweets . A new analysis by Pew Research Center finds that the one-quarter of legislators who are most active on the site produce a majority of all tweets from this group – both overall and within each individual country .
Americans generally express more worry than enthusiasm when asked about these automation technologies . Most prominently , Americans are roughly twice as likely to express worry ( 72 % ) than enthusiasm ( 33 % ) about a future in which robots and computers are capable of doing many jobs that are currently done by humans . They are also around three times as likely to express worry ( 67 % ) than enthusiasm ( 22 % ) about algorithms that can make hiring decisions without any human involvement . By comparison , public views towards driverless vehicles and robot caregivers exhibit more balance between worry and enthusiasm .
Science knowledge is closely related to expectations for harm from climate change among Democrats , but not among Republicans . In 2016 , Democrats with high science knowledge were far more likely than Democrats with low science knowledge to say a series of environmental impacts would be very likely to occur as a result of climate change , including rising sea levels and intensifying storms . But there are only modest or no differences among Republicans with different levels of science knowledge in their expectations of harm to the Earth 's ecosystems .
When it comes to public libraries , immigrant Hispanics pose both a challenge and an opportunity to the library community . On the one hand , this group , which makes up half of the adult U.S. Hispanic population , is less likely than other Americans to have ever visited a U.S. public library and is much less likely to say that they see it as `` very easy '' to do so . At the same time , Hispanic immigrants who have made their way to a public library stand out as the most appreciative of what libraries have to offer , from free books to research resources to the fact that libraries tend to offer a quiet , safe space . And they are more likely than other groups to say that closing their community library would have a major impact on their family . These are some of the findings of this latest installment of the Pew Research Center 's reporting on the Center 's landmark 2013 Library Services Survey . Seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) Latinos ages 16 and older say they have visited a public library or bookmobile in person at one point or another in their lives , the survey shows , a share below that of whites ( 83 % ) and blacks ( 80 % ) . But this finding masks a large difference among Latinos . Fully 83 % of U.S.-born Latinos say they have visited a public library at some point in their lives—a share similar to that of whites and blacks . However , among immigrant Latinos , a smaller share—60 % —say they have visited a public library or bookmobile in person . Some public library services can also be accessed remotely through library websites . Here , too , though , the survey finds a gap in use between U.S.-born Latinos ( 49 % ) , blacks ( 48 % ) and whites ( 45 % ) who say they have accessed a public library website and immigrant Latinos ( 27 % ) who say the same .
Americans and Germans also take differing stances on the U.S. military presence in Germany . People in the U.S. see their country 's military bases in Germany as much more important to the security of their country than Germans do : 85 % of Americans believe these bases are important to the U.S. 's security interests , and nearly six-in-ten see them as very important . Germans , by contrast , are not sold on the idea that American military bases are important to German security . While about half of Germans see U.S. military bases as important for their country 's national security , 45 % disagree .
But when asked which story they followed most closely this week , news coming from Iraq remains the clear priority . By more than three-to-one ( 26 % vs. 7 % ) a larger share cite events in Iraq rather than the policy debate at home as the single topic they followed most closely . Despite limited coverage , there remains a core audience for news about Anna Nicole Smith ; 16 % of Americans followed reports on Ms. Smith 's autopsy results the most closely – a story that filled only 2 % of the newshole this past week . Overall , roughly twice as many people focused on this story as focused on reports about the 2008 campaign or on the Iraq policy debate in Washington , even though each of the last two stories received three-times the press coverage .
Amid these changes , Americans are divided on whether it is possible to cut regulations while still effectively protecting air and water quality , with 52 % saying it is possible and 48 % saying it is not . Some 74 % of Republicans and independents who lean Republican believe it is possible to cut regulations and protect the quality of air and water , compared with 35 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners who say the same .
Just 21 % of Americans say relations between Republicans and Democrats will get better in the coming year . Far more ( 37 % ) expect relations to worsen , while 41 % say they will stay about the same . To be sure , more Democrats say partisan relations will stay the same ( 44 % ) or get worse ( 20 % ) than predict they will improve . But Democrats are far more optimistic than Republicans , a majority of whom ( 54 % ) say relations will get worse in the coming year , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Nov. 12 to 17 .
Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say wealthy people will gain influence in Washington when Trump takes office . Just 8 % say they will lose influence , while 27 % expect the wealthy will not be affected .
Parents with children younger than 18 in the household were no more or less likely than non-parents to express support for allowing teachers to carry guns in schools : 46 % of parents and 44 % of non-parents said they would favor it . Instead , opinions divided primarily along party lines and by gun ownership status , with Republicans and those who own guns particularly likely to say they would support allowing teachers to carry guns in schools .
In most cases , Black , Hispanic and Asian American users stand out from White users in how effective they think social media are at achieving some social and political aims . About seven-in-ten Black , Hispanic and Asian users say social media are at least somewhat effective for changing people 's minds about political or social issues , compared with half of White users who say the same . These views generally hold true when influencing policy decisions and getting elected officials to pay attention to issues are considered . As to whether social media are seen as very or somewhat effective for creating sustained social movements , Black and Hispanic users ( 82 % for both ) are more likely to say this than White Americans ( 76 % ) who use these sites . Some 77 % of Asian Americans who use social media say these sites are at least somewhat effective for this aim .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say social media have a mostly negative effect on the way things are going in the country today , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted July 13 - 19 , 2020 . Just one-in-ten Americans say social media sites have a mostly positive effect on the way things are going , and one-quarter say these platforms have a neither positive nor negative effect .
Jehovah 's Witnesses , who make up just less than 1 % of U.S. adults , are known for their door-to-door proselytism . But members of this denomination , which has its origins in 19th-century America , are also unique in many other ways . Here are a few facts about Jehovah 's Witnesses in the United States today , based on Pew Research Center 's Religious Landscape Study : Jehovah 's Witnesses are among the most racially and ethnically diverse religious groups in America . No more than four-in-ten members of the group belong to any one racial and ethnic background : 36 % are white , 32 % are Hispanic , 27 % are black and 6 % are another race or mixed race .
The oil leak continues to dominate news coverage as well . About a third of all coverage ( 34 % ) was devoted to the oil leak , far more than any other story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
A new Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults finds that these users are turning to YouTube for much more than entertainment . Roughly half of YouTube users say the platform is very important for helping them figure out how to do things they 've never done before . That works out to 35 % of all U.S. adults , once both users and non-users of the site are accounted for . And around one-in-five YouTube users ( representing 13 % of the total adult population ) say it is very important for helping them understand events that are happening in the world .
One year after the surge of 1.3 million refugees who entered Europe in 2015 was at its peak , the number of new arrivals this summer has declined sharply compared with last year . But at the same time , the backlog of unprocessed asylum applications has reached more than 1 million and continues to grow , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the United Nations and European Union . In 2016 , people have continued to cross the eastern Mediterranean into Europe , but in much smaller numbers . However , migration could again surge if an agreement between the EU and Turkey collapses following a coup attempt in Turkey . Migration from Turkey into Greece – the transit corridor used by most of 2015 's 1.3 million migrants – largely stopped once the EU-Turkey deal was put in place in March 2016 . This summer , an average of about a hundred migrants has landed on Greece 's shores daily , down from the thousands who arrived every day last summer , according to data from the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) .
Among those who say that it is at least probable that senior members of the Trump administration had improper contact with Russia , 36 % are very confident that Mueller 's investigation will be fair and another 31 % are somewhat confident . Among those who think that there was probably or definitely no improper contact , only 12 % are very confident in a fair investigation , while 30 % are somewhat confident .
In 2016 , 186,874 Iowans participated in the Republican caucus and 171,109 participated in the Democratic caucus , both held on Feb. 1 . On that date , according to the Iowa secretary of state 's office , there were 586,835 active registered Democratic voters and 615,763 active Republican registered voters . That works out to 30.3 % of eligible Republicans and 29.2 % of eligible Democrats participating in the caucuses , or 18.5 % of the state 's total 1,937,317 active registered voters . ( By comparison , in 2016 , turnout averaged 29.3 % across all the Democratic and Republican primaries . )
The new data show a 117 % increase in the number of unaccompanied children ages 12 and younger caught at the U.S.-Mexico border this fiscal year compared with last fiscal year . By comparison , the number of apprehensions of unaccompanied teenagers ages 13 - 17 has increased by only 12 % over the same time period .
The December 2019 survey also finds U.S. Hispanics are divided on how much of a common identity they share with other Americans , though views vary widely by immigrant generation . About half ( 53 % ) consider themselves to be a typical American , while 44 % say they are very different from a typical American . By contrast , only 37 % of immigrant Hispanics consider themselves a typical American . This share rises to 67 % among second-generation Hispanics and to 79 % among third-or-higher-generation Hispanics – views that partially reflect their birth in the U.S. and their experiences as lifelong residents of this country .
More Americans say they feel like they know a lot about Giuliani and McCain than the other leading Republican candidates . Even so , fewer than three-in-ten say they know a lot about Giuliani ( 28 % ) and McCain ( 27 % ) . Just 16 % say they know a lot about Romney , while 11 % say they know a lot about Huckabee . More than four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say they know `` nothing at all '' about the former Arkansas governor .
Russians do not like the U.S. and other Western powers . Only 15 % of Russians have a favorable view of the U.S. , with 81 % holding an unfavorable opinion . Similarly , only 12 % of Russians have positive views of NATO . Even opinions of the EU ( 31 % favorable ) and Germany ( 35 % ) are at all-time lows . In fact , since 2011 , positive views of Germany have fallen 43 percentage points . Similar drops in favorability also occurred in views of the U.S. ( down 41 points ) , the EU ( down 33 ) and NATO ( down 25 ) since 2011 .
Most never-married users of online dating platforms say they are currently using one of these services or have recently done so . Around a third of online daters who have never been married ( 34 % ) – which translates to 18 % of all never-married adults – say they are currently using a dating site or app . An additional 28 % say they are not currently using an online dating service but have done so in the past year . About four-in-ten online daters who have never tied the knot say that the last time they used a dating site or app was either between one and five years ago or more than five years ago . As one might expect , relatively few Americans who are married or living with a partner are currently active on dating platforms . Still , among those who say they have ever used an online dating platform , 5 % of cohabiting and 3 % of married people say they are currently using one of these services . That means 1 % of all married adults and 2 % of all cohabiting adults in the U.S. are current users of dating sites or apps .
Americans rank math as one of the most important skills children need today to get ahead . In a 2014 Pew Research Center survey , respondents were asked , `` Regardless of whether or not you think these skills are good to have , which ones do you think are most important for children to get ahead in the world today ? '' Roughly eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 79 % ) said math is one of the most important skills needed for youth to get ahead . That placed math on par with teamwork , but slightly lower than communication and reading .
The United States is home to more college-educated immigrants than any other country . As of 2015 , there were 14.7 million immigrants ages 25 and older with a postsecondary diploma or college degree living in the U.S. – more than triple the number in Canada ( 4.4 million ) and more than four times as many as in the United Kingdom ( 3.4 million ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center report .
Additionally , 32 % of internet users agree with the statement that `` online dating keeps people from settling down because they always have options for people to date . '' This is the first time we have asked this question .
There also are sizable gender and race differences in views of both candidates . More than half of women voters ( 53 % ) give cold ratings to Pence , while just 32 % give him warm ratings . Women voters have mixed views of Harris ( 44 % cold , 40 % warm ) . About half of men voters give cold ratings to both candidates ( 49 % Pence , 53 % Harris ) , while fewer view each warmly . Black voters have largely positive opinions of Harris . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) give her warm ratings , more than twice the share ( 21 % ) who feel cold toward her . Most Black voters ( 73 % ) feel coldly toward Pence , including 67 % who give him very cold ratings – that is , 0 to 24 on the feeling thermometer .
Among older adults , tablets and e-book readers are as popular as smartphones : Among the general public , smartphones are much more common than either tablet computers or e-book readers , such as Kindles or Nooks . But tablets , e-book readers , and smartphones are each owned by an identical 18 % of older adults . In fact , the proportion of older adults who own either a tablet or an e-book reader is actually larger than the proportion owning a smartphone . Some 27 % of seniors own a tablet , an e-book reader , or both , while 18 % own a smartphone . Today 46 % of online seniors ( representing 27 % of the total older adult population ) use social networking sites such as Facebook , and these social network adopters have more persistent social connections with the people they care about .
Americans broadly agree that elected officials should avoid using heated language because it could encourage violence . Nearly three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say this , while just a quarter believe that elected officials `` should be able to use heated language to express themselves without worrying about whether some people may act on what they say . ''
By 62 % t0 33 % , more women disapprove than approve of the job Trump has done . Among men , about as many say they approve of how Trump has outlined his plans ( 46 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) . By more than two-to-one , blacks ( 69 % -25 % ) and Hispanics ( 68 % -27 % ) say they disapprove of the job Trump has done explaining his plans and policies to the American people . Whites are more evenly divided : 46 % say they approve , while 49 % disapprove .
About a quarter of social media users ( 23 % ) say they have changed their settings on social media to see fewer posts from someone because of something related to the 2016 election . An even smaller share ( 16 % ) say they have blocked or unfriended someone on social media over something related to the election .
Unemployment varies widely by country in the EU , in many cases reflecting national differences in economic performance . In the first quarter of 2018 , the Czech Republic , Germany , Hungary and Poland had the lowest unemployment rates , while Greece , Spain , Italy , Croatia and Cyprus had the highest . Nearly all EU countries ' unemployment rates declined from the first quarter of 2013 – the end of Europe 's second recession – to the first quarter of 2018 , but the degree of change differed starkly between nations . The countries with the largest percentage-point decreases include Spain ( -10.0 percentage points ) , Portugal ( -9.7 ) and Ireland ( -8.7 ) , while unemployment decreased far more modestly in Austria ( -0.3 points ) , Luxembourg ( -0.3 ) , Italy ( -0.8 ) and France ( -1.1 ) . Only Finland ( +0.1 ) saw an increase during this time .
Pew Research Center does not have polling data on press treatment , but we did recently poll the Turkish public on the media 's influence on the nation . Only 32 % of Turks said that the media is having a good influence on the way things are going in Turkey . Although no institution earned a large majority of support , the media ranked lower than the military ( 55 % ) , the police ( 55 % ) , the national government ( 51 % ) and then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan ( 48 % ) . Turkish views of the media were also slightly lower than public opinion of the court system ( 37 % ) and religious leaders ( 37 % ) .
About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) of all LGBT adults who have told their mother said the experience was a difficult one , and 65 % of those who told their father said the same . Relatively few said it resulted in their relationships growing weaker .
About four-in-ten Black adults ( 42 % ) say spending on police in their area should decrease , including 22 % who say spending should be decreased a lot . One-third of Black adults say spending should stay the same , while 22 % say it should be increased .
Overall , 39 % say it has contributed a lot to encouraging interest in science , 35 % say it has contributed some while 22 % think it has contributed not much or nothing . Nearly as many ( 38 % ) say the space program has contributed a lot to scientific advances that all Americans can use , while 34 % think it has done a lot for feelings or pride and patriotism .
6 Where do atheists find meaning in life ? Like a majority of Americans , most atheists mentioned `` family '' as a source of meaning when Pew Research Center asked an open-ended question about this in a 2017 survey . But atheists were far more likely than Christians to describe hobbies as meaningful or satisfying ( 26 % vs. 10 % ) . Atheists also were more likely than Americans overall to describe finances and money , creative pursuits , travel , and leisure activities as meaningful . Not surprisingly , very few U.S. atheists ( 4 % ) said they found life 's meaning in spirituality .
In Florida , Cubans were about twice as likely as non-Cuban Latinos to vote for Donald Trump . More than half ( 54 % ) supported the Republican president-elect , compared with about a quarter ( 26 % ) of non-Cuban Latinos , according to National Election Pool exit poll data . A significant share of Cubans in Florida voted for Hillary Clinton – 41 % – but this was far below the 71 % of non-Cuban Latinos who backed the Democratic nominee . At the same time , the level of support for Trump among Cubans was similar to that of non-Latinos in the state ( 51 % ) .
Asian and Hispanic newlyweds are the most likely to be intermarried . Nearly three-in-ten Asian newlyweds ( 29 % ) were married to someone of a different race or ethnicity in 2015 , as were 27 % of Hispanic newlyweds . Intermarriage for these groups was especially prevalent among the U.S. born : 39 % of U.S.-born Hispanics and almost half ( 46 % ) of U.S.-born Asian newlyweds were intermarried in 2015 . Although Asian and Hispanic newlyweds are most likely to be intermarried , overall increases in intermarriage have been driven in part by rising intermarriage rates among black and white newlyweds . The most dramatic increase has occurred among black newlyweds , whose intermarriage rate more than tripled from 5 % in 1980 to 18 % in 2015 . Among whites , the rate rose from 4 % in 1980 to 11 % in 2015 .
Beyond the examples noted above , Americans anticipate significant changes to the nature of jobs and work in the coming decades as a result of automation . Overall , roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) think it 's realistic that robots and computers might one day be able to do many of the jobs currently done by humans , with 20 % describing this prospect as extremely realistic . And substantial shares of Americans anticipate that automation will impact a number of specific career fields over the course of their lifetimes . Sizable majorities expect that jobs such as fast food workers and insurance claims processors will be mostly performed by machines during that timeframe , while around half expect that the same will be true of jobs such as software engineers and legal clerks .
A majority of Americans ( 63 % ) say that when they talk about politics with people they disagree with , they usually find they have `` less in common '' politically than they thought previously . Fewer than a third of Americans ( 31 % ) say they find they have more in common with people they disagree with politically .
Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 29 % ) followed news about ISIS very closely . Comparable percentages say they very closely followed news about the recent measles outbreak and the debate over childhood vaccines ( 25 % ) and U.S. economic news ( 24 % ) . Just 12 % paid very close attention to the situation involving Russia and Ukraine .
In 2016 , men made up only 39 % of Hillary Clinton 's voters . This share grew to 45 % for Democratic House candidates in 2018 . But other than a slight increase in the share of Republican voters ages 65 and older , there was little change in the respective age profiles of the two parties ' voters . Nearly half of those who voted for Democratic candidates were under 50 years of age , compared with almost a third ( 32 % ) of Republican voters .
About a quarter of LGBT men may be getting Happy Fathers ' Day wishes today . According to the Pew Research Center 's new survey of LGBT Americans , 23 % of LGBT men are fathers , including 16 % of gay men and 32 % of bisexual men . LGBT men are significantly less likely than men in the general public to be fathers : Seven-in-ten American men are fathers , according to Pew Research Center polling . And , LGBT women are about twice as likely as LGBT men to be parents : 48 % are mothers , including 31 % of lesbians and 59 % of bisexual women .
Just 47 % of the French say it is morally unacceptable for married people to have an affair , the lowest percentage among 39 nations surveyed in 2013 by the Pew Research Center . In fact , France was the only country where less than 50 % of respondents described infidelity as unacceptable . Instead , four-in-ten think it is not a moral issue , while 12 % say it is actually morally acceptable . And there is essentially no gender gap on this issue , with 45 % of French men and 50 % of women saying affairs are unacceptable . Across the countries polled , a median of 79 % consider infidelity unacceptable , including an overwhelming 84 % of Americans . This belief is especially widespread in predominantly Muslim nations – nine-in-ten or more hold this view in the Palestinian territories , Turkey , Indonesia , Jordan , Egypt , Pakistan , Lebanon , Malaysia and Tunisia .
Those with high levels of religiosity also stand out when considering the possibility that development of gene editing would entail testing on human embryos . An overwhelming majority of those high in religious commitment ( 87 % ) say this would be taking medical technology too far ; just 11 % of this group says this would be appropriate . In contrast , 55 % of those low in religious commitment say that development of gene editing techniques that require testing on human embryos would be an appropriate use of medical technology . There are also differences in views about gene editing by religious affiliation , particularly if such techniques would involve embryonic testing . Just 11 % of white evangelical Protestants say that if development of gene editing techniques required testing on human embryos , it would be an appropriate use of medical technology .
Roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) are very concerned about North Korea having nuclear weapons . And 64 % say that in the event of a serious conflict , the United States should use military force to defend its Asian allies , such as Japan , South Korea or the Philippines , against the Pyongyang regime , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . A further 61 % think sanctions , rather than attempts at closer ties , are the best way to deal with the nuclear threat posed by the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea .
In recent years there has been renewed interest in the debate over journalists ' use of anonymous sources , and this has included criticism directly from President Donald Trump . Survey data from earlier this year shows that most Americans see a place for journalists to use anonymous sources , but few think journalists should have carte blanche to use them when reporting the news . A majority of U.S. adults ( 82 % ) say that there are times when it is acceptable for journalists to use anonymous sources , with 67 % saying it is acceptable only in special cases – a view which echoes the standards of professional journalism organizations that say journalists should take every step to attribute information to a named source when possible before relying on an anonymous source . A much smaller share – 15 % – thinks use of anonymous sources is always acceptable . About two-in-ten Americans ( 18 % ) think it is never acceptable .
A 2012 Pew Research poll showed that a plurality of U.S. Catholics ( 45 % ) said getting a divorce was not a moral issue ; 32 % of U.S. Catholics say it was morally acceptable , while 19 % said it was morally wrong . There were not significant differences on this question between Catholics who say they attend Mass at least once a week and those who attend church less often .
Post-Millennials – today 's 6- to 21-year-olds , also known as Generation Z – are on track to be the most racially and ethnically diverse generation yet . A bare majority of post-Millennials are non-Hispanic white ( 52 % ) , while a quarter are Hispanic . And while most post-Millennials are still pursuing their K-12 education , the oldest members of this generation are enrolling in college at a significantly higher rate than Millennials were at a comparable age .
Younger Republicans are especially likely to say that Republicans in Congress are not obligated to support Trump 's policies if they disagree with them ; those ages 50 to 64 are about evenly divided in their views . By contrast , a majority of Republicans 65 and older say that Republican lawmakers in Washington do have an obligation to support the president 's policies even if they disagree . Conservative Republicans and Republican leaners are split in their views : About as many say GOP lawmakers have an obligation to support Trump 's policies ( 47 % ) as say they do not ( 50 % ) . Most moderate and liberal Republicans ( 72 % ) say Republicans in Congress are not obligated to support Trump 's policies if they disagree with them .
But despite QAnon 's spread , about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say they have heard or read nothing at all about it , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in February and March . Around a quarter ( 23 % ) say they have heard or read a lot or a little , with 3 % saying they 've heard or read a lot . The data was gathered as part of the Center 's Election News Pathways project . About three-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 28 % ) say they 've heard or read a little or a lot about QAnon , compared with 18 % of Republicans and those who lean toward the GOP . Overall , 3 % of those in or leaning toward both parties say they have heard or read a lot about the conspiracy theories . Although QAnon has gained a modest foothold among some far-right factions , liberal Democrats are the most likely of any ideological group to say they have heard or read something about it : 39 % have heard or read at least a little , and 5 % say they 've heard or read a lot . In contrast , 20 % of conservative and moderate Democrats have heard or read at least a little ; 2 % have heard or read a lot . Among Republicans , 20 % of conservatives say they have heard or read at least a little about QAnon , compared with 15 % of liberal and moderate Republicans . Identical shares ( 3 % ) of conservative Republicans and moderate and liberal Republicans have heard or read a lot about the conspiracy theories .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners , younger adults have much more positive views of colleges and universities than older adults . About half ( 52 % ) of Republicans ages 18 to 29 say colleges and universities have a positive impact on the country , compared with just 27 % of those 65 and older . By contrast , there are no significant differences in views among Democrats by age , with comparable majorities of all age groups saying colleges and universities have a positive impact .
Fully two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Latinos say they expect their financial situation to improve over the next year , compared with 58 % of the general population who say the same . Also , two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Latinos say they expect their children to eventually enjoy a standard of living that is better than theirs is now . By contrast , just 48 % of the general public says the same .
For many users , social media is part of their daily routine . Roughly three-quarters of Facebook users – and around six-in-ten Instagram users – visit these sites at least once a day .
A majority of Americans ( 69 % ) say a candidate 's sexuality would not affect their support of a presidential candidate . But those who say it would have an impact are much more likely to say it would have a negative than a positive one . About a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) says it would make them less likely to support the hypothetical candidate , compared with 4 % who say it would make them more likely to support that candidate .
First , split-ticket districts were overwhelmingly Republican for the presidency but Democratic when it came to the House ( a combined 92.6 % of all split-ticket districts in the five election cycles between 1972 and 1988 ) . And second , tickets in Southern districts were far more likely to be split than those in any other region : Of all districts that split their presidential and House votes between 1972 and 1988 , 41.2 % were from Southern states even though the South accounted for just 31.5 % of all House seats . This was well above the shares in any of the other three Census-defined regions . In 1972 , two-thirds of all Southern districts split their presidential and House votes ; as recently as 1988 more than half still did .
Roughly one-in-four teens have fought with a friend because of something that first happened online or because of a text message . While a majority of teens have not fought with a friend over something that initially occurred online , 26 % of teens have experienced this type of digitally facilitated conflict . Teen girls ( 32 % ) are more likely than their male counterparts ( 20 % ) to say they have had this type of conflict , while whites are more likely than blacks to have fought with a friend because of something that happened online .
While all community types gained at least some population from international migration , suburban counties stand out in terms of domestic migration . A net of 6.4 million people have moved from urban and rural areas into the suburbs since 2000 ( meaning that 6.4 million more people moved into suburban areas from an urban or rural area than moved out of suburban areas to different types of communities ) , while cities lost a net of 5.4 million people and rural counties lost 1.0 million people to other community types . Combined with international migration , urban counties gained a net total of only 1.6 million people due to migration and rural counties lost about 400,000 , compared with suburban counties ' gain of 11.7 million people .
Overall , a majority of Americans say they have a mostly positive view of medical doctors ( 72 % ) , and the same is true for medical research scientists ( 66 % ) . Views of these scientists have not changed substantially since the question was last asked in January 2019 , before the COVID-19 outbreak .
About one-in-seven U.S. adults ( 15 % ) say they have ever used a mail-in DNA testing service from a company such as AncestryDNA or 23andMe , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Most of them say they did so to learn more about their family origins , and a notable share say the results surprised them . When asked about their reasons for using a mail-in DNA testing service , the vast majority of those who have done so ( 87 % ) say they wanted to learn more about where their family came from . About a third say they did so to get information about their health or family medical history ( 36 % ) and to connect with relatives they might have but did n't know about ( also 36 % ) .
About 16 million Americans are self-employed , according to BLS data from July of this year . But the impact of the self-employed is wider : A Pew Research Center report found that self-employed Americans and the people working for them together accounted for 30 % of the nation 's workforce , or 44 million jobs in total in 2014 . Only about a quarter of self-employed people ( 3.4 million ) had employees of their own , though , and those who did have workers did n't have very many : Among self-employed people with employees , the median in 2014 was three and the average was 8.6 .
In 2016 , 30.1 % of university presidents were women , triple the share in 1986 . Frances Elizabeth Willard became the first female college president in 1871 , heading the Evanston College for Ladies in Illinois , which later merged with Northwestern University . In 1975 , Lorene L. Rogers was the first woman to lead a major research university ( University of Texas ) , and Judith Rodin in 1994 became the first permanent female president of an Ivy League institution ( University of Pennsylvania ) .
Views of Mexico are mixed : While 39 % say they feel `` warmly '' toward Mexico , 34 % feel `` coldly , '' and 26 % are neutral , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted July 30 to Aug. 12 among 4,581 adults . The public has much warmer feelings toward Canada . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say they feel warmly toward Canada , with 52 % giving it a very warm rating ( 76 or higher on the scale ) . Just 12 % feel coldly toward Canada .
The partisan gap is even more pronounced on the question of whether `` good jobs '' are available ( half of respondents are asked about `` job '' availability , half are asked about `` good jobs '' availability ) . While 57 % of Republicans say there are plenty of `` good jobs '' ( little different than the share who say there are plenty of jobs ) , just 32 % of Democrats say this .
Gauging digital audience for the entire newspaper industry is difficult since many daily newspapers do not receive enough traffic to their websites to be measured by Comscore , the data source relied on here . Thus , the figures offered above reflect the top 50 U.S. daily newspapers based on circulation . In the fourth quarter of 2018 , there was an average of 11.6 million monthly unique visitors ( across all devices ) for these top 50 newspapers . This is nearly the same as in Q4 2017 ( 11.5 million ) and 2016 ( 11.7 million ) ; following two years of growth from 2014 to 2016 , newspapers ' website traffic has leveled off . ( The list of top 50 papers is based on Sunday circulation but also includes The Wall Street Journal , which does not report Sunday circulation to AAM . It also includes The Washington Post and The New York Times , which make the top 50 even though they do not fully report their digital circulation to AAM . For more details and the full list of newspapers , see our methodology . )
Online radio listening in cars , such as listening to AM/FM stations online or streaming other online audio , remained steady after years of increase . In 2019 , 41 % of Americans ages 12 and older have ever listened to online radio in a car using a phone , up from just 5 % in 2010 .
A new analysis of data from Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel finds a slightly different share than the Census Bureau : the Center found that 22 % of Americans self-report living with a disability , defined here as a `` health problem , disability , or handicap currently keeping you from participating fully in work , school , housework , or other activities . '' Of those who say they have a disability , half ( 51 % ) say they have `` serious difficulty walking or climbing stairs , '' 31 % say they have `` serious difficulty concentrating , remembering or making decisions '' and 19 % say they have difficulty doing errands alone .
But perhaps just as striking is that the geographic distribution of the poor has changed dramatically , too . A new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data finds that the South continues to be home to many of America 's poor , though to a lesser degree than a half-century ago . In 1960 , half ( 49 % ) of impoverished Americans lived in the South . By 2010 , that share had dropped to 41 % .
But if you 're a teenager or young adult , you 're much less likely to have seen significant job market improvement compared with older adults . Our analysis of the latest employment data finds that last month , more than half ( 50.9 % ) of the nation 's nearly 8 million unemployed people are between the ages of 16 and 34 – even though that group makes up just over a third of the civilian labor force .
Newsroom employees are more likely than all U.S. workers to live in the Northeast . Roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) of all newsroom employees work in this region , compared with 18 % of workers overall . They are less likely to live in the South : A third of newsroom employees live in the South , compared with 37 % of workers overall . About the same share of newsroom employees and all workers live in the West ( 22 % vs. 23 % ) and Midwest ( 20 % vs. 22 % ) . Employment at online news outlets is especially concentrated in the Northeast . About four-in-ten newsroom employees who work in internet publishing live in the Northeast ( 41 % ) – roughly twice the share of newsroom employees in all industries combined . Online newsroom employees are also more likely to live in the West ( 28 % ) than those working in other news industries . By comparison , the regional breakdown of those working in the newspaper and broadcasting industries is similar to that of newsroom employees overall .
Overall , these views are little changed over the past few years , but the partisan divide in opinion has continued to grow . Democrats are now significantly more likely than Republicans to say Russia is an adversary ( 34 % to 20 % , respectively ) , while Republicans are more than twice as likely as Democrats to say Russia is `` not much of a problem '' ( 38 % to 14 % ) .
Program and production expenses for the 123 news-oriented local public radio licensees was $ 446.8 million in 2017 , compared with $ 439.6 million in 2016 . While program and production expenses comprise only a portion of overall station expenses , an increase in these kinds of expenditures indicates that the stations are directing more dollars toward the creation of news content .
Mobile phone sharers , too , are often quite concerned about identity theft ; outside of India and Lebanon , at least half of mobile phone sharers in every country report being very concerned about this issue . For mobile sharers , too , concerns about device security can play a role in why people choose not to own their own devices . While cost is the primary reason mobile phone sharers give for why they do not personally have a phone ( a median of 34 % across eight countries reports this ) , the second most commonly cited reason is that a previous mobile phone was lost , broken or stolen . Another 2 % say they do not own their own mobile phone because of concerns that it will be stolen .
When asked a separate set of questions about whether the use of facial recognition technology is acceptable under certain circumstances , the public again expresses more acceptance of these tools when used by law enforcement agencies than in other situations . A 59 % majority of U.S. adults think it is acceptable for law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition technology to assess potential security threats in public spaces , while just 15 % find this unacceptable . The rest are either unsure if this is acceptable or have not heard of facial recognition technology in the first place . By comparison , larger shares of Americans find it unacceptable than find it acceptable for companies to use these technologies to automatically track the attendance of their employees ( 30 % acceptable , 41 % not acceptable ) , or for advertisers to use these tools to see how people respond to public advertising displays ( 15 % acceptable , 54 % unacceptable ) . The public is largely split on apartment building landlords using this technology to track who is entering or leaving their buildings : 36 % think this is an acceptable use of facial recognition technology , but 34 % think it is not .
In a Pew Research Center survey in early 2018 , around three-quarters of Americans ( 74 % ) said voting in elections was very important to what it means to be a good citizen , and around seven-in-ten said the same about paying taxes ( 71 % ) and always following the law ( 69 % ) . But Democrats and Republicans – as well as younger and older adults – did n't see eye to eye on all the traits and behaviors associated with good citizenship .
The share of Americans ages 18 and older with at least some education beyond high school has risen since 2009 , according to the Census Bureau – from 55 % that year to 58 % in 2014 – though that 's a continuation of a trend that dates back to at least 2001 . But student performance at the elementary and secondary levels has n't changed much , according to data from the National Assessment of Educational Progress . The share of eighth-graders scoring at or above the `` proficient '' level in reading went from 32 % in 2009 to 34 % in 2015 , for instance , and the share scoring at or above proficiency in math went from 34 % in 2009 to 33 % last year . Among fourth-graders , 36 % scored at or above the proficiency level in reading last year , versus 33 % in 2009 . For math proficiency , the shares were 40 % and 39 % , respectively .
A recent Pew Research survey asked about specific types of support adults may have provided for their aging parents in the last 12 months . About six-in-ten adults with at least one parent age 65 or older say they have helped their parent with errands , housework or home repairs .
Majorities of independents say the U.S. needs to continue to make changes to give blacks equal rights with whites ( 57 % ) and that significant obstacles still make it harder for women to get ahead ( 54 % ) . In addition , far more independents say immigrants do more to strengthen ( 66 % ) than burden ( 23 % ) the country . However , Republican-leaning independents differ from Republicans in their views of immigrants ' impact on the country . Among GOP leaners , 44 % say immigrants strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents ; 40 % say they are a burden on the country because they take jobs , housing and health care . A majority of those who identify as Republicans ( 55 % ) say immigrants burden the country .
Nearly two-thirds in the U.S. ( 65 % ) also say Americans are tolerant , but international publics are less convinced . While half or more hold this view in Poland , Japan , Germany and Italy , most in China , Sweden , Australia , the UK , France and Canada believe Americans are not tolerant .
President Vladimir Putin 's handling of foreign affairs gets high ratings from most Russians , in contrast to more tempered views of his economic policies and anti-corruption efforts at home . Confidence in Putin 's global leadership has been consistently strong over the decade-and-a-half that Pew Research Center has polled in Russia . Trust in the Russian leader has remained high since an increase in 2014 , shortly after the conflict with Ukraine and subsequent annexation of Crimea . Despite slippage in how well the public thinks their president is handling key foreign policies , a majority of Russians say their country plays a more important role on the world stage than it did 10 years ago .
While it did n't ask specifically about parental leave , the Pew Research Center 's new survey on women and men in the workplace did find that about a third of both men and women said the ability to take time off for family needs was `` extremely important '' to them in a job . An analysis of global data compiled by the OECD shows that , compared with 37 other nations , the U.S. is an outlier when it comes to paid leave — it is the only nation that does not offer federal paid leave for new parents . ( Although many large companies in the U.S. provide some paid leave to employees . )
The U.S. receives higher favorable ratings in Africa than in any other region . Our 2015 survey found mostly positive ratings for the U.S. around the globe , but they were especially high in Africa – across the nine nations surveyed in the region , a median of 79 % expressed a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while just 10 % had an unfavorable view . Obama is very popular in Africa . Big majorities in all nine African nations surveyed express confidence in him , including 80 % of Kenyans and 65 % of Ethiopians . Obama 's predecessor , George W. Bush , also received mostly positive ratings in the region , and the rise in anti-Americanism that occurred in many parts of the world during the Bush era was largely absent in Africa .
Among respondents who took the survey from March 3 - 12 , before the declaration of a national emergency and the suspension of most professional and collegiate sports seasons , 73 % said the spread of infectious diseases was a major threat . But once the declaration was made on March 13 , as cases of the novel coronavirus increased across the U.S. , more became concerned about the issue . Among those surveyed between March 13 - 29 , 84 % named spreading disease as a major threat .
Suspected bots also accounted for 66 % of tweeted links to sites focused on news and current events . That 's a lower share than for sites focused on adult content ( 90 % ) , sports ( 76 % ) and commercial products ( 73 % ) , but higher than for sites focused on celebrities ( 62 % ) , those focused on organizations or groups ( 53 % ) or internal links to Twitter.com ( 50 % ) . News and current events websites include sites that produce original reporting on events in public life , those that mostly aggregate news from other sites , and those that focus primarily on commentary or discussion .
In all four Western European countries surveyed , Obama outperformed not only McCain , but fellow Democrat Hillary Clinton as well ( when the poll was conducted , Sen. Clinton was still a viable candidate for the nomination ) . For instance , 84 % of the French who are following the race have confidence in Obama , compared with 60 % confident in Clinton . This suggests that Obama 's appeal among Europeans may be driven by more than just his party affiliation .
Putting these demographic measures together , 38 % of the youngest newsroom employees are both non-Hispanic white and male . This is still a higher share than among workers overall ( 30 % ) , but this 8-percentage-point gap is smaller than among older age groups . Newsroom employees age 50 and older are 17 percentage points more likely to be white men than all workers in the same age group , while those ages 30 to 49 are 15 points more likely .
With fewer options for online access at their disposal , many lower-income Americans are relying more on smartphones . As of early 2019 , 26 % of adults living in households earning less than $ 30,000 a year are `` smartphone-dependent '' internet users – meaning they own a smartphone but do not have broadband internet at home . This represents a substantial increase from 12 % in 2013 . In contrast , only 5 % of those living in households earning $ 100,000 or more fall into this category in 2019 .
Latinos who are not citizens or legal residents are not much different in how frequently they attend religious services when compared with other Latinos or the general U.S. population . Among foreign-born Latinos who are naturalized citizens or legal permanent residents , 45 % attend religious services on at least a weekly basis . Among U.S.-born Latinos , 37 % attend on at least a weekly basis . And among the general U.S. population , 38 % attend religious services on at least a weekly basis .
Southern states have seen the most notable increase in the annual share of resettled refugees in the United States .10 About 15 years ago , about a quarter of all refugees were resettled in Southern states each year . But the share grew to become 32 % of all resettled refugees in fiscal 2015 and 29 % in fiscal 2017 .
The horrific nature of mass shootings , which are rare and account for a very small share of all homicides , always rivet public attention . But because this one occurred on a military base , it drew attention again to concerns about the extent to how the military copes with soldiers experiencing mental and emotional problems , particularly when it comes to veterans returning from the post-9/11 wars .
In assessing why some people are poor , 53 % think it is because of circumstances beyond their control , while 34 % attribute it to a lack of effort . There has been little change in these opinions in recent years , according to a survey in December .
Public perceptions of medical scientists and their research are broadly positive . Some 55 % of Americans perceive strong consensus among medical scientists that the measles , mumps and rubella vaccine is safe for healthy children . Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say that medical scientists understand very well the risks and benefits of the MMR vaccine , 43 % say medical scientists understand this fairly well and just one-in-ten ( 10 % ) say medical scientists do not understand this at all or not too well . Some 52 % say that scientists ' research on childhood vaccines is influenced by the best available evidence most of the time , and 55 % say such research is influenced by scientists ' concern for the best interests of children 's health most of the time . Smaller shares say that researchers ' desire to help their industries or to advance their own careers influences research on childhood vaccines most of the time .
But as is the case with most attitudes about the conduct of elections and proposals on voting , partisans are sharply divided in these views . Large majorities of Republicans are confident that the election will be conducted fairly and accurately ( 75 % ) and that all citizens who want to vote will be able to do so ( 87 % ) .
Republicans hold a 49 % -40 % lead over the Democrats in leaned party identification among whites . The Democrats hold an 80 % -11 % advantage among blacks , and lead by more than two-to-one among Hispanics ( 56 % -26 % ) . Asian Americans also lean Democratic by a wide margin ( 65 % -23 % ) . This data for Asian Americans is based on interviews conducted in English . Back to top
However , for the population it is meant to describe , only 23 % of U.S. adults who self-identify as Hispanic or Latino have heard of the term Latinx , and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves , according to a nationally representative , bilingual survey of U.S. Hispanic adults conducted in December 2019 by Pew Research Center .
People tend to have a more favorable opinion of the EU than of the European Parliament . Across 10 surveyed EU countries , a median of 62 % see the EU favorably , compared with a median of 50 % who see the European Parliament favorably . The UK and Greece stand out for their negative assessments of both . In two of the EU 's biggest countries – France and Germany – majorities have a favorable view of the EU , but views of the European Parliament are divided .
Some analysts say the Aereo TV case now before the U.S. Supreme Court could have disastrous consequences for local TV stations if the justices allow the company to capture broadcast programming without paying content producers . The New York Times ' David Carr warned , that in one such scenario , `` companies that own large groups of local stations like the Tribune Company and the Sinclair Broadcast Group would suddenly find themselves in possession of a much diminished collection of assets . '' If that potential threat looms , it has n't slowed these media companies from dramatically expanding their local television holdings in recent years . A decade ago , the number of stations owned by what are now the five largest local TV companies was 190 . Today , that number is 464 . In 2013 , alone , about 300 full-power local TV stations changed hands , at a cost of more than $ 8 billion . That is 195 more stations sold than in 2012 and more than four times the dollar value of the deals made in 2012 .
Among male respondents , about three-in-ten ( 32 % ) say men generally prefer to work with men while only 7 % say they favor women co-workers . An even larger share of women—40 % –of women say men prefer men as co-workers while 9 % say men would rather work with women .
Voters report less discussion of issues during the 2014 campaign than in recent midterm elections . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say that there was less discussion of issues this year compared to past elections ; about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say that there was more discussion of issues than past years . This is the lowest percentage saying there was more discussion of issues than in any election since the 1998 midterm . As is often the case , members of the winning party – in this case , Republicans — have more positive views of the campaign . Nearly twice as many Republican as Democratic voters say there was more discussion of issues than in past elections ( 42 % vs. 22 % ) . In 2006 , opinions were reversed : about half of Democratic voters ( 52 % ) said there had been more discussion of issues compared with just 32 % of Republicans .
Vast majority of teens have access to a home computer or smartphone Some 95 % of teens now say they have or have access to a smartphone , which represents a 22-percentage-point increase from the 73 % of teens who said this in 2014 - 2015 . Smartphone ownership is nearly universal among teens of different genders , races and ethnicities and socioeconomic backgrounds . A more nuanced story emerges when it comes to teens ' access to computers . While 88 % of teens report having access to a desktop or laptop computer at home , access varies greatly by income level . Fully 96 % of teens from households with an annual income of $ 75,000 or more per year say they have access to a computer at home , but that share falls to 75 % among those from households earning less than $ 30,000 a year . Computer access also varies by the level of education among parents . Teens who have a parent with a bachelor 's degree or more are more likely to say they have access to a computer than teens whose parents have a high school diploma or less ( 94 % vs. 78 % ) .
Political views , physical appearance , gender and race are among the top reasons people say they are harassed online . Some 14 % of Americans – representing 35 % of those who have encountered any type of harassment online – say they have been the target of online harassment because of their political views . Democrats and Republicans are equally likely to say this . Among other reasons people have been harassed online , around one-in-ten U.S. adults cite their physical appearance ( 9 % ) , while 8 % each say they were targeted because of their gender or their race or ethnicity . Smaller shares cited religion , sexual orientation , occupation or disability status as reasons . Social media is by far the most common venue for online harassment . When asked where their most recent incident with online harassment occurred , 58 % of those who have been harassed online cited social media , the most common response . By comparison , 23 % of online harassment targets say their most recent experience occurred in the comments sections of a website , while 15 % cited a text or messaging app .
In foreign affairs , Australia has long held strong relationships with the nations of both Asia and the West . When asked whether , taking into account political and economic ties , China or the U.S. is more important to Australia , 45 % answer China , while nearly an identical percentage say the U.S. ( 42 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) volunteer that they are equally important .
The public is wary of computer algorithms being used to make decisions with real-world consequences . The public expresses widespread concern about companies and other institutions using computer algorithms in situations with potential impacts on people 's lives . More than half ( 56 % ) of U.S. adults think it is unacceptable to use automated criminal risk scores when evaluating people who are up for parole . And 68 % think it is unacceptable for companies to collect large quantities of data about individuals for the purposes of offering them deals or other financial incentives . When asked to elaborate about their worries , many feel that these programs violate people 's privacy , are unfair , or simply will not work as well as decisions made by humans .
Our survey asked those who have earned money through digital employment platforms – such as ride-hailing apps or various digital task sites – why they take on this type of work . They cited a number of reasons , from helping to fill in gaps in their other sources of income ( 37 % mentioned this ) to needing ways to earn money that could fit into the other demands on their time ( 30 % ) . But the number one motivation , cited by 42 % of respondents , was fun , or because the work gives them something to do in their spare time .
NRA members are also significantly more likely than other gun owners to say they have a gun that is loaded and easily accessible to them at all times ( 53 % vs. 34 % ) . And , among handgun owners , NRA members are twice as likely to say they carry a gun with them outside of their home all or most of the time ( 44 % vs. 22 % ) . They are also more likely to say they have taken a gun safety course at some point – 84 % of NRA members have done this , compared with 67 % of gun owners who do n't belong to the NRA .
They are also less accepting of homosexuality and more negative toward minority groups . For instance , 59 % of Swedes with a positive opinion of the right-wing populist Sweden Democrats express an unfavorable opinion of Muslims in their country ; among those with a negative view of the Sweden Democrats , just 17 % see Muslims negatively . How people feel about right-wing populist parties also shapes attitudes toward Muslims in Germany , the Czech Republic , the Netherlands , France , Italy , Spain , the UK and Hungary .
Despite differing quite clearly on China 's handling of COVID-19 , scholars and the U.S. public hold similar views concerning priorities for the U.S.-China relationship . About three-quarters among both groups say the U.S. should try to promote human rights in China , even if it harms economic relations between the two countries . In contrast , roughly a quarter of both IR scholars and the U.S. public say that the U.S. should prioritize strengthening economic relations with China , even if it means not addressing human rights issues .
A small group of lawmakers with extremely large followings dominate the congressional social media narrative . As is true of both ordinary Twitter users and legislators in other countries , the majority of audience engagement goes to a small group of lawmakers with extremely large followings . In the 116th Congress , the 10 % of members with the most followers on Facebook and Twitter have received more than three-quarters of all favorites , reactions , shares and retweets on these platforms . For example , tweets from members of Congress received about 1.1 billion favorites since January 2019 – and 907 million of those favorites went to just 10 % of members . Congress as a whole produces a vast amount of social media content each month . As a collective , the 116th Congress maintains over 2,000 active official , campaign and personal accounts on Facebook and Twitter ( not counting institutional accounts that periodically change hands , such as committee chair or leadership accounts ) with over a quarter-billion total followers between them .2 In an average month in 2020 so far , these accounts produce more than 100,000 tweets and Facebook posts , which receive tens of millions of audience favorites , reactions , shares and retweets .
Hispanic registered voters are just as motivated to vote and are paying as close attention to this year 's midterm elections as they were in 2010 , according to the survey . About half ( 53 % ) of Hispanic registered voters say they are absolutely certain they will vote this year , unchanged from the 51 % who said the same in 2010 . And today 35 % say they have given this year 's election `` quite a lot '' of thought compared with 32 % who said the same in 2010 .
Among Clinton supporters , those with a college degree have a harder time respecting someone who prefers Trump than those who have not graduated from college . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) of college graduates who back Clinton say they have a hard time , compared with a narrower majority ( 53 % ) among Clinton supporters who have not completed college .
Still , most parents with children younger than 18 say it would be best for them personally to be employed , either full time or part time , at this point in their life . Among fathers , 82 % say it would be best for them to be working full time ; 11 % say it would be best to be working part time and just 7 % say it would be best to not be working for pay at all . Views are more varied among mothers : 51 % say it would be best for them to be working full time , 30 % say part-time work would be best and 19 % say the optimal arrangement for them would be not to work for pay at all right now . Mothers across income groups express similar views of what would be best for them at this point in their life . About half of part-time working moms ( 54 % ) say working part time is best for them at this point in their life , but a sizable share ( 33 % ) say working full time would be best and 14 % say not working for pay at all would be best . And among stay-at-home moms , 39 % say not working for pay at all is what 's best for them , but a similar share ( 35 % ) say it would be best for them to be working part time ; a quarter of mothers who are not employed say it would be best for them to be working full time .
Anti-incumbent sentiment among voters has been growing steadily over the last decade and , this year , it matches or exceeds the last several midterms . About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of registered voters said last month that they do n't want to see most House members re-elected and about a third ( 35 % ) do n't want to see their own representative returned to office . In the 2006 and 2010 midterms , about half of voters said they wanted to see most members of Congress defeated .
Views on this question vary by respondents ' religious affiliation . Among white evangelical Protestants themselves , most feel that the Trump administration has had a positive impact on their affairs . About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say that the administration has helped evangelicals , while only 7 % say it has hurt them . Jews ( 64 % ) are about as likely to say the Trump administration has helped evangelical Christians , while black Protestants ( 21 % ) are least likely to say this . The effects of Trump 's presidency on Muslims , on the other hand , are widely perceived to be negative . Americans are about seven times more likely to say that the Trump administration has hurt Muslims as they are to say it has helped them ( 48 % vs. 7 % ) . Views on whether the Trump administration has helped or hurt Jews are more divided . The share of U.S. adults who say the administration has helped Jews ( 29 % ) is roughly equal to the share who say it has hurt them ( 26 % ) , while about four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 42 % ) say the administration has not made much of a difference for Jews .
For the first time this year , a majority of registered voters who support Romney ( 57 % ) now think of their vote as a vote for Mitt Romney , not as a vote against Barack Obama . As recently as September , just over half of Romney voters ( 52 % ) said their main motivation was their opposition to Obama .
Overall , black immigrants ( 28 % ) are somewhat less likely than the overall U.S. population ( 31 % ) to have a college degree or more , but black immigrants from Africa are more likely than Americans overall to have a college degree or higher . But educational attainment varies widely by country of origin . For example , 59 % of foreign-born blacks from Nigeria have a bachelor 's or advanced degree – a share that is roughly double that of the overall population . By comparison , just 10 % of black immigrants from Somalia have earned at least a bachelor 's degree .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners , views are more mixed . Half say he has changed the nature of political debate in the country for the better , while 28 % say he has n't changed it much and 21 % say he 's changed it for the worse . There is a significant divide in views on this question among Republicans by ideology . Far more conservative Republicans say Trump has changed U.S. political debate for the better than for the worse ( 61 % vs. 12 % ) . By contrast , moderate and liberal Republicans are about as likely to say he 's changed debate for the worse ( 35 % ) as for the better ( 33 % ) .
Overall , about half of Americans ( 48 % ) say the current number of restrictions on public activity in their area is about right . Republicans and Republican leaners are much more likely to say that there should be fewer restrictions in their area ( 44 % ) than to say there should be more restrictions in their area ( 16 % ) . Democrats and Democratic leaners are more likely to say there should be more restrictions ( 35 % ) than fewer ( 8 % ) . Republicans who live in states that are currently under stay-at-home orders are more likely to say there should be fewer restrictions in their area . About half ( 49 % ) of Republicans living in states under stay-at-home orders as of May 5 say this , compared with about four-in-ten Republicans living in states without such orders in place .
But as the state 's Hispanic population has grown more diverse over time , so too has its Hispanic electorate . Both Cuban Americans and Puerto Ricans have decreased as a share of Florida 's Latino electorate since 2008 , while the share of those from other origin groups has increased ( from 39 % to 44 % of eligible voters ) . The number of Venezuelan eligible voters in Florida grew by 184 % from 2008 to 2018 – the fastest growth of any Latino origin group , though they still only account for 2 % of all Hispanic eligible voters in the state . Other groups that grew considerably faster than the statewide average include Peruvians ( +109 % ) , Ecuadorians ( +106 % ) and Colombians ( +102 % ) . Again , however , each of these groups still makes up a relatively small share of the state 's Latino electorate ( 8 % or less ) .
The survey also found that many men say men face at least some pressure to engage in activities that are sometimes associated with `` traditional masculinity . '' More than eight-in-ten say men face pressure to be emotionally strong , with 41 % saying men face a lot of pressure in this area . About six-in-ten ( 57 % ) say men face pressure to be willing to throw a punch if provoked , 45 % say men face pressure to join in when other men talk about women in a sexual way , and 40 % say men face pressure to have many sexual partners .
Perhaps not surprisingly , workers at larger private sector employers are more likely to have paid family leave available . According to the NCS data , 23 % of workers at employers with 500 or more employees had access to the benefit ( up from 17 % in 2010 ) , while only 9 % of workers at employers with fewer than 100 employees do .
A substantial majority of the public ( 70 % ) believes local governments should be able to build their own broadband networks if existing services in the area are either too expensive or not good enough , according to the survey , conducted March 13 - 27 . Just 27 % of U.S. adults say these so-called municipal broadband networks should not be allowed . ( A number of state laws currently prevent cities from building their own high-speed networks , and several U.S. senators recently introduced a bill that would ban these restrictions . )
10 Americans say they have very little understanding of current data protection laws , and most are in favor of more government regulation . Just 3 % of U.S. adults say they have `` a lot '' of understanding of the current laws and regulations in place to protect their data privacy , with 63 % saying they understand very little or not at all . However , the majority of Americans support more government regulation in this area . Some 75 % of U.S. adults say there should be more government regulation of what companies can do with customers ' personal information . These numbers echo figures from an earlier Pew Research Center phone survey from 2013 , not based on the American Trends Panel , which found that 68 % of internet users believed the current laws were n't good enough at protecting people 's privacy online .
College graduates are more likely to know that U.S. manufacturing output has increased than are people with less than a bachelor 's degree . Still , college graduates are about as likely to say output has increased rather than decreased ( 43 % versus 39 % ) , with the rest saying it 's stayed about the same . About half ( 51 % ) of people without a four-year college degree say manufacturing output has fallen , versus a third ( 32 % ) who say it has risen .
Death penalty supporters overwhelmingly view it as morally justified : 90 % say that when someone commits a crime like murder , the death penalty is morally justified . Just 26 % of death penalty opponents view it as morally justified . Yet the differences between death penalty supporters and opponents are not as stark when it comes to other opinions about capital punishment . A large majority ( 84 % ) of those who oppose the death penalty say there is a risk that an innocent person will be put to death ; so too do 63 % of death penalty supporters .
Though ratings for the EU are generally positive , views of the European Parliament and European Commission are more divided . A median of 50 % have a positive opinion of the European Parliament and 48 % view the European Commission favorably . As with attitudes toward the EU more broadly , Poles have some of the most positive views of these institutions while Greeks are much more negative . Roughly two-thirds of Greeks view the European Commission ( 66 % ) and Parliament ( 65 % ) unfavorably . Evaluations of these European institutions have stayed mostly the same since 2014 , when the question was last asked , although ratings have become more favorable in Spain and Italy . For example , in Spain in 2014 , roughly a third viewed the European Parliament ( 32 % ) and European Commission ( 30 % ) positively . In 2018 , the share increased to around 50 % for both bodies ( 52 % and 51 % , respectively ) .
When Americans are asked what has brought the biggest improvement to their lives in the past five decades , they name technology more than any other advancement . And as Americans think about the next 50 years , they expect that technology , along with medical advances , will continue to have a major impact , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted May to June of this year .
Hispanic voters generally believe the U.S. government should play a role in providing health care to Americans . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say it is the federal government 's responsibility to make sure all Americans have health care coverage , including 38 % who favor a national health insurance system and 32 % who prefer a mix of private and government health care coverage . Around a quarter ( 28 % ) say it is not the government 's responsibility to make sure all Americans have health care coverage , though most in this group say they prefer to keep Medicare and Medicaid . Hispanic Democrats and Republicans have different views on the role government should play in providing health coverage . About eight-in-ten Hispanic Democratic voters ( 84 % ) say it is the government 's responsibility to ensure Americans have health care , with 49 % supporting a national health insurance system . Meanwhile , about half ( 51 % ) of Hispanic Republican voters say it is not the government 's responsibility to ensure universal coverage , though most in this group prefer to keep Medicare and Medicaid .
Overall , a global median of 46 % say they are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , while 52 % are not . Satisfaction is most common in Asia-Pacific and sub-Saharan Africa , and least common in Latin America . In Europe , opinions vary widely across nations . More than seven-in-ten are happy with their democracy in Sweden , the Netherlands and Germany . But two-thirds or more are unhappy in Italy , Spain and Greece – all southern European nations that have struggled economically over the past decade .
Republicans express intensely negative views of `` socialism '' and highly positive views of `` capitalism . '' Overall , a much larger share of Americans have a positive impression of capitalism ( 65 % ) than socialism ( 42 % ) , according to a new survey by Pew Research Center . There are large partisan differences in views of capitalism : Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 78 % ) express somewhat or very positive reactions to the term , while just over half of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 55 % ) say they have a positive impression .
Family members accounted for about a third ( 35 % ) of all border apprehensions in 2018 – the highest share within the past seven years . The months leading up to the shutdown drove this increase : Family member apprehensions in December made up more than half ( 54 % ) of total southwest border apprehensions that month , the fourth consecutive high since September ( 40 % ) . Border agents also apprehended nearly 54,000 unaccompanied children in 2018 – or 12 % of the total – though this share was lower than in 2014 through 2016 ( each 14 % ) . ( Unaccompanied child apprehensions do not include children who were apprehended as a family unit and later became unaccompanied as a result of prosecution initiatives . ) Besides unaccompanied children and family members , single adults continue to account for the largest share of border apprehensions : In 2018 there were nearly 250,000 single adult apprehensions , or 54 % of the total . Still , the recent surge in family unit apprehensions is particularly notable because December 2018 marks the third time family member apprehensions exceeded single adult apprehensions , according to the Department of Homeland Security . The other two times were in October and November .
About two-thirds of Americans say the country 's openness to people from around the world is `` essential to who we are as a nation . '' Just 29 % say that if America is too open to people from other countries , `` we risk losing our identity as a nation , '' according to a summer 2017 survey . Eight-in-ten Millennials say America 's openness is key to the nation 's identity , compared with 68 % of Gen Xers , 61 % of Boomers and 54 % of Silents . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say that America 's openness is essential to the country 's identity ( 84 % vs. 47 % ) .
Most Americans say it would be too risky to give presidents more power . About three-quarters of the public ( 76 % ) say it would be `` too risky '' to give presidents more power to deal directly with the nation 's problems . Just 21 % support the view that problems could be better dealt with if presidents could worry less about Congress and the courts . Since 2016 , Republicans have become less likely – and Democrats more likely – to say it would be too risky to give presidents more power . Still , large majorities in both parties ( 70 % of Republicans and 83 % of Democrats ) oppose the idea of giving presidents more power .
Familiarity with online dating through usage by friends or family members has increased dramatically since our last survey of online dating in 2005 . Some 42 % of Americans know someone who has used online dating , up from 31 % in 2005 . And 29 % of Americans now know someone who met a spouse or other long-term partner through online dating , up from just 15 % in 2005 .
A majority of Latino ( 60 % ) and black ( 64 % ) officers say it should be up to federal authorities to identify undocumented immigrants . On the other hand , a majority of white officers ( 59 % ) say that when it comes to identifying undocumented immigrants , local police should take an active role .
The amount of time that Americans ages 60 and older spend on their TVs , computers , tablets or other electronic devices has risen almost half an hour per day over the past decade , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data , even as screen time among younger people has more or less held steady . Those 60 and older – a group increasingly populated by aging Baby Boomers – now spend more than half of their daily leisure time , four hours and 16 minutes , in front of screens , mostly watching TV or videos . Screen time has increased for those in their 60s , 70s , 80s and beyond , and the rise is apparent across genders and education levels . Meanwhile , the time that these older adults spend on other recreational activities , such as reading or socializing , has ticked down slightly .
There are demographic differences among Republicans on many of these issues – and in views of Trump . For instance , Republicans younger than 30 are much less likely to say that immigrants to the United States threaten our values than those 65 or over ( 57 % vs. 83 % ) . Younger Republicans are also less positive in their assessments of Trump ( 37 % warm vs. 56 % among those 65 and older ) . In addition to age , both education and ideology are associated with views of Trump within the GOP . Republican voters with less than a college degree –particularly those with some college experience – feel more warmly toward Trump than those with more education . And conservative GOP voters rate Trump higher than moderate and liberal GOP voters .
The other prominent example of social media users seeking to make a statement with their profile picture was over the LGBT rights issue , for which a rainbow-color filter was commonly used ; 21 % of those who changed their picture did so for this issue . Overall , 7 % of all social media users changed their picture in the case of Paris and 4 % for LGBT rights . In these two specific instances , Facebook provided a one-click tool to enable users to overlay the French flag and the rainbow filters over their profile pictures .
Americans have several complaints about the federal tax system , most notably the impression that some corporations and wealthy people do n't pay their fair share . Almost two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they are bothered a lot by the feeling that some corporations are n't paying what 's fair in federal taxes , and 61 % say the same about some wealthy people . Just 20 % say they are bothered a lot by the feeling that some poor people do n't pay their fair share . A greater share – 44 % – say the complexity of the tax system bothers them a lot . Democrats are more likely to complain about corporations and the wealthy not paying their share , while Republicans register more irritation with the system 's complexity , the amount they pay , and some poor people not paying their fair share .
Last March , more than a year before the first primaries , more voters valued a hypothetical candidate with `` experience and a proven record '' ( 50 % ) than one who had `` new ideas and a different approach '' ( 43 % ) . Just six months later , those numbers had flipped – 55 % said it was more important for a candidate to have new ideas , while 37 % valued experience and a proven record .
The survey asked respondents whether they would go to live in another country , if they had the means and opportunity . At least four-in-ten in each sub-Saharan country surveyed answered yes , including roughly three-quarters of those surveyed in Ghana ( 75 % ) and Nigeria ( 74 % ) .
Overall , personal understanding of the tax law 's impact varies only modestly across demographic groups . However , those with more education feel they understand how the law might affect them better than those with less education . Partisan differences in understanding are modest : Republicans and Republican leaners ( 71 % ) are only somewhat more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 65 % ) to say they understand very or somewhat well how the law might affect them .
As confirmed cases of the coronavirus top 20 million globally , many in the countries surveyed say that count could have been minimized through stronger international cooperation . A 14-country median of 59 % say that if their country had cooperated more with other countries , the number of coronavirus cases would have been lower in their country . In comparison , a median of 36 % say such cooperation would have been futile in reducing cases .
The public gives mixed ratings for how news organizations covered the events in Baltimore . About half rate the coverage as `` only fair '' ( 28 % ) or `` poor '' ( 20 % ) , while roughly as many rate it `` excellent '' ( 9 % ) or `` good '' ( 35 % ) . Whites , blacks and Hispanics give generally similar ratings .
According to the Pew Research survey , nearly four-in-ten adults who are working past the median retirement age of 62 say they have delayed their retirement because of the recession . Among workers ages 50 to 61 , fully 63 % say they might have to push back their expected retirement date because of current economic conditions .
Examining the annual change on a quarterly basis suggests a change in the trend occurred in mid-2006 ( Figure 12 ) . In 2004 , apprehensions in every quarter were substantially higher than in the same quarter of 2003 , with increases ranging from 23,000 in the fourth quarter to 109,000 in the second quarter . During the first two quarters of 2005 , apprehensions were down somewhat compared to the same quarters of 2004 , but quarter-to-quarter increases were registered through the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 . For four quarters in a row since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have decreased on an annual basis . The sharpest drop occurred in the first quarter of 2007 , when there were 122,000 fewer apprehensions than in the first quarter of 2006 . Analyzing the rate of annual change on a quarterly basis paints a similar picture ( Figure 13 ) . In percentage terms , apprehensions grew solidly in every quarter of 2004 compared to the same quarters of 2003 , with increases averaging 25 % . The trend was slightly negative in the first ( -2 % ) and second ( -1 % ) quarters of 2005 before it picked up for the next three quarters , which averaged gains of 9 % . Since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have been down by an average of 27 % in every quarter compared to the same quarter in the previous year .
In addition to approving of Duterte 's approach to the war on drugs , a majority ( 62 % ) believes the government is making progress in its campaign against illegal drugs , while 21 % say that things are the same as they were in the past and 15 % say the government is losing ground . While large majorities of both less-educated and more-educated Filipinos approve of Duterte 's handling of the illegal-drugs issue , these two groups differ on their views of the government 's overall progress in its fight against drugs . Filipinos with a secondary education or above ( 70 % ) are much more likely than those with a below-secondary education ( 49 % ) to say that the government is making progress in its campaign against illegal drugs .
Puerto Ricans account for a rapidly increasing share of Florida 's Hispanic eligible voters – U.S. citizens who are 18 years or older , regardless of whether they have registered to vote . Puerto Ricans now make up about a third ( 31 % ) of these adults , a similar share to that of Cubans ( 31 % ) , according to a separate Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data .
Interest in current news from Egypt is low across all demographic groups . And there are no significant partisan differences in opinions about the importance of events in Egypt to U.S. interests and the influence of the United States on the current situation there . Currently , 40 % of independents , 36 % of Democrats and 35 % of Republicans say what happens in Egypt is very important to U.S. interests . In a February 2011 poll by CBS News , 53 % of Republicans , 47 % of Democrats and 44 % of independents held this view .
Bilingualism is measured in our National Surveys of Latinos by asking Hispanic adults to self-assess their language abilities . Respondents rated their ability to carry on a conversation in Spanish and how well they can read a book or newspaper written in Spanish . The same questions are posed about their English-speaking ability . Bilingualism is linked to age . Some 42 % of Hispanics ages 18 to 29 are bilingual . That share falls to about a third among Hispanics ages 30 to 49 and ages 50 to 64 , but rises again , to 40 % , among those ages 65 and older .
Conservatives ( 25 % ) are a bit more likely than either moderates ( 15 % ) or liberals ( 9 % ) to say that parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated even if that creates health risks for others . At least seven-in-ten of all three ideology groups say that the MMR vaccine should be required for healthy schoolchildren , however . There are no significant differences in views about this issue by political party in this survey .
About eight-in-ten adults ( 78 % ) feel that public libraries help them find information that is trustworthy and reliable and 76 % say libraries help them learn new things . Also , 56 % believe libraries help them get information that aids with decisions they have to make . A large majority of Millennials ( 87 % ) say the library helps them find information that is trustworthy and reliable , compared with 74 % of Baby Boomers ( ages 52 to 70 ) who say the same . More than eight-in-ten Millennials ( 85 % ) credit libraries with helping them learn new things , compared with 72 % of Boomers . And just under two-thirds ( 63 % ) of Millennials say the library helps them get information that assists with decisions they have to make , compared with 55 % of Boomers .
In Pew Research Center polling in 2004 , Americans opposed same-sex marriage by a margin of 60 % to 31 % . Support for same-sex marriage has steadily grown over the past 15 years . And today , support for same-sex marriage remains near its highest point since Pew Research Center began polling on this issue . Based on polling in 2019 , a majority of Americans ( 61 % ) support same-sex marriage , while 31 % oppose it .
Trump receives much lower marks for both the job he has done explaining his plans and policies ( 39 % approve ) and for his cabinet choices ( 41 % approve ) than Obama received in 2009 . Eight years ago , 70 % approved of the job Obama had done explaining his plans and policies for the future and 66 % said they approved of his cabinet selections . As reported in December , early ratings for Trump also trail those given to other recent presidents at similar points in their presidential transitions , including George W. Bush , Bill Clinton and George H.W . Bush .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 16 - 22 among 4,708 adults using the Center 's American Trends Panel , finds that a sizable majority ( 87 % ) thinks that the actions of ordinary Americans have a great deal or fair amount of impact on how the coronavirus spreads in the U.S. Nearly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 59 % ) say ordinary Americans have a great deal of impact on the spread of the coronavirus , but while 73 % of Democrats think the actions of ordinary people matter a great deal in affecting its spread , only 44 % of Republicans say the same . These questions can be explored using the Center 's Pathways data tool .
Africans continue to say their countries face a variety of challenges . Despite the optimism about the economic future , people still have many economic concerns – for instance , a median of 88 % say the lack of employment opportunities is a very big problem . And when asked about six potential areas for improvement , beyond strictly economic issues , many identify health care and education as top priorities . Health care is the top choice in eight of nine countries , while education tops the list in South Africa . In addition to domestic concerns , many in the region also are worried about global challenges , especially climate change . A median of 59 % say they are very concerned about global climate change . Among the seven global threats tested on the survey , climate change tops the list in seven of the nine African nations polled . Only Latin Americans express a similar level of concern about this issue .
While a dislike of the candidates or issues was the most frequently cited reason for not voting , other top reasons included a lack of interest or a feeling that their vote would n't make a difference ( 15 % ) , being too busy or having a conflicting schedule ( 14 % ) , having an illness or disability ( 12 % ) and being out of town or away from home ( 8 % ) . Another 11 % gave other reasons .
Few people globally express confidence in Putin . In 22 of the 33 countries surveyed , more express no confidence in Putin than express confidence . A median of 60 % across these countries say they have no confidence in Putin to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs .
The survey also asked the public to rate the ethical standards of police officers , a question that revealed similar demographic differences . While nearly three-quarters of the public said they would rate the ethical standards of police officers highly , just 52 % of black adults said the same . Views also differed by age . Adults ages 18 to 29 gave officers the lowest marks , with about six-in-ten ( 61 % ) saying they would rate officers ' ethical standards as high or very high . Adults 65 and older were 22 percentage points more likely to rate their ethical standards as high or very high ( 83 % ) .
There also are sizable gender and age differences in views of the missile strikes and on whether Trump has a clear plan for addressing the Syrian situation . Nearly seven-in-ten men ( 68 % ) approve of the U.S. missile strikes in response to the reported use of chemical weapons , compared with 48 % of women .
The bridge collapse in Minneapolis that killed five people and raised concerns about infrastructure safety nationwide surpassed all other news stories last week both in public interest and media coverage . Nearly half ( 48 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week , far exceeding interest in Iraq , the week 's next most closely followed story ( 17 % most closely ) .
Pew Research Center surveys of transatlantic experts and general publics in North America and Europe reveal a division between these two groups over the role of the people 's voice in governing . While a median of 68 % of the 12 publics surveyed say allowing citizens to vote directly on major national issues would be a good way to govern their country , just 37 % of foreign policy experts surveyed agree .
Compared with young adults who do n't have student debt , student loan holders are less upbeat about the value of their degree . About a third ( 36 % ) of those ages 25 to 39 with at least a bachelor 's degree and outstanding student loan debt say that the lifetime financial costs of their degree outweigh the benefits . By comparison , 15 % of young college graduates without outstanding student loans say the lifetime costs outweigh the benefits .
In the final week of the 2008 Democratic primary campaign , Obama was the top newsmaker . In all he appeared as a dominant or significant factor in 77 % of the campaign stories , according to PEJ 's Campaign Coverage Index for June 2 - 8 . That was his highest single-week total for the year . Clinton trailed him in the battle for exposure , a major figure in 60 % of stories . ( An analysis of primary-season coverage from Jan. 6 through June 8 reveals that on an average week , Obama registered in 57 % of the coverage compared to 50 % for Clinton . McCain trailed badly at 27 % . )
China and India make the list mainly because of their large populations . Currently centenarians make up a very small share , proportionally , of these relatively young countries . But they make up a larger share of the total populations of rapidly aging Japan and Italy . Today , there are 4.8 centenarians for every 10,000 people in Japan and 4.1 in Italy .
The most intense library users are also the most likely to be frequent bookstore visitors : `` Library Lovers '' represent the most highly engaged group in the typology . They are also big readers : Most of them read books daily , and they read an average of 27 books in the past year . And despite their higher levels of library use and the fact that most prefer to borrow books rather than purchasing them , 57 % say they visit bookstores regularly ( a higher proportion than any other group ) .
Populist movements have ushered in new political actors on both sides of the Atlantic . Perhaps none is better known than the 45th president of the United States , Donald Trump . Among the foreign policy experts polled by Pew Research Center , nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) say they lack confidence in Trump to do the right thing regarding world affairs . A median of 76 % among the European and North American publics agree . Nearly as many foreign policy experts describe Trump as `` dangerous . '' A median of roughly seven-in-ten across the publics surveyed share this view .
For independents who lean toward a party , the belief that the other party 's policies are harmful is the most frequently cited reason for their partisan leaning . Nearly six-in-ten Republican-leaning independents ( 58 % ) and Democratic leaners ( 57 % ) say a major reason for leaning to the Republican and Democratic parties , respectively , is a feeling that the other party 's policies are harmful for the country .
Along with asking teens about their views of screen time and distractions due to the technologies in their lives , the Center also fielded a separate survey in which parents of teenagers shared their views about a subset of these issues . At a broad level , this survey finds that parents are somewhat less concerned about their own technology use than teens are about theirs . Around one-third of parents ( 36 % ) say they spend too much time on their cellphone , and 23 % say the same about their social media use . Slightly more than half of parents ( 55 % in each case ) believe they spend the right amount of time on their cellphone or on social media .2 For the most part , parents of different genders , races and ethnicities , and income levels report similar levels of concerns about their own technology use .
Total newsroom spending by the three channels combined increased by 5 % in 2018 to a total of $ 2.4 billion , according to estimates by Kagan . Newsroom spending at the three major financial networks was $ 725 million , a 3 % change .
A substantial minority of Mexicans say that if they had the means and opportunity to go live in the U.S. they would do so , and more than half of those who would migrate if they had the chance say they would do so without authorization .
3 Democrats are more likely than Republicans to see the coronavirus in the most serious terms . As of last week , nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 78 % ) say the outbreak is a major threat to the health of the U.S. population as a whole ; a much smaller share of Republicans and GOP leaners ( 52 % ) say the same . Democrats are also more likely than Republicans to say the coronavirus outbreak presents a major threat to the U.S. economy , their personal finances and their own health .
The December 2017 survey asked people if they were active in 10 specific types of community groups and organizations : church groups , hobby groups , charitable or volunteer organizations , professional associations , community groups , book clubs , parent groups or youth organizations , social clubs , performing arts groups and veterans ' groups . It also gave respondents the chance to say they are involved in some `` other '' type of group or organization ( beyond the ones listed above ) .
Nearly two-in-ten ( 19 % ) respondents from our survey said they get news from a source ( be it a cable news network , a news magazine or a news website ) that they distrust . This figure , though , is more pronounced among conservatives . About a quarter of both those with consistently conservative ( 26 % ) and mostly conservative ( 25 % ) political views consume at least one source that they distrust , compared with just 14 % of those with consistently liberal political views and 16 % of those with mostly liberal views . Still , most respondents ( 78 % ) get news only from outlets they trust or ones they neither trust nor distrust . ( Ideological consistency in this analysis is based on responses to 10 questions about a range of political values . )
By a 51 % to 34 % margin , more moderate and liberal Republicans and Republican leaners say they have a favorable than unfavorable view of Jeb Bush , while 15 % do not offer a rating . Among conservative Republicans , the balance of opinion is about the same : 54 % view Bush favorably , while 37 % view him unfavorable and 10 % do not offer a rating . For the five other declared or likely Republican candidates included in the survey , ratings are more positive among conservative than among moderate and liberal Republicans , and this is particularly pronounced in the ratings of Marco Rubio and Scott Walker . For example , by a 60 % to 15 % margin , more conservative Republicans hold a favorable than unfavorable view of Marco Rubio ; 25 % can not offer a rating . Rubio 's ratings among moderate and liberal Republicans are much more mixed ( 34 % favorable , 28 % unfavorable ) , while as many as 38 % can not offer a rating .
Republicans have long been more likely than Democrats to say news coverage unfairly favors one side , and that remains the case today . About nine-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 91 % ) think news coverage of political and social issues favors one side , compared with 69 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
A plurality of Americans ( 45 % ) say the country has n't gone far enough in giving black people equal rights with whites , while 39 % say it 's been about right and 15 % say we 've gone too far . Black adults are by far the most likely to say the country has n't gone far enough – 78 % say this , compared with 37 % of whites and 48 % of Hispanics . Among whites , there is a vast party divide on this issue . While 64 % of white Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the country has n't gone far enough in giving blacks equal rights with whites , only 15 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say the same . About a third of white Republicans ( 31 % ) say the country has gone too far , compared with 5 % of white Democrats .
Americans think U.S.-German relations are in good shape , but Germans disagree . Roughly two-thirds of Americans say relations are good , compared with just 42 % of Germans , according to polling conducted by Pew Research Center in the U.S. and by the Körber-Stiftung in Germany .
Germans are more positive about globalization than Americans , but there are divisions within each country . When asked whether globalization in the past few years has been a good thing or bad thing for their country , Americans are about evenly divided ( 47 % vs. 44 % ) . By comparison , nearly six-in-ten Germans ( 59 % ) see globalization as advantageous to their country , while only three-in-ten say it has been a bad thing . ( The surveys did not define globalization . )
Most people in the countries we surveyed say rich nations should do more than developing nations to address climate change . A median of 54 % agree with the statement `` Rich countries , such as the U.S. , Japan and Germany , should do more than developing countries because they have produced most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions so far . '' A median of just 38 % think `` developing countries should do just as much as rich countries because they will produce most of the world 's greenhouse gas emissions in the future . '' Notably , the U.S. is among a small group of countries in which half or more believe developing countries should do just as much – half of Americans hold this view , while only four-in-ten want rich countries to shoulder more of the costs .
The Islamic militant group known as ISIS has risen higher atop the public 's list of global threats to the U.S . Overall , 83 % say ISIS is a major threat to the well-being of the United States , while 13 % say it is a minor threat and just 3 % say it is not a threat . Since August 2014 , the public has become 16 points more likely to view ISIS as a major threat to the U.S .
But with global public opinion decidedly anti-Iran , there is a steep hill to climb in Rouhani 's quest to improve Iran 's image and repair relations with the rest of the world . Overall , a median of 20 % across the 39 countries surveyed in a spring 2013 Pew Research Center poll had a positive view of the Islamic Republic .
A string of revelations over the past two years about the National Security Agency 's domestic and international surveillance efforts have brought new awareness to many Americans about online privacy and security concerns . Yet most American adults have not made significant changes to their digital behavior , and 54 % say that it would be `` somewhat '' or `` very '' difficult to find the tools and strategies that would enhance their privacy online and when using cellphones , according to a Pew Research Center report .
Views are more positive when it comes to whether the U.S. and its allies will succeed or fail in their military campaign against ISIS . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) now say they think the U.S. and its allies will either definitely or probably succeed in their campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria , while just 27 % say they will definitely or probably fail . The share who say the U.S. and its allies will succeed is up 11 points from July ( from 55 % ) .
However , the survey finds that two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Latino registered voters say they talked about the immigration policy debate with someone they know in the past year . It also finds that those who have had these conversations are more motivated to vote in the upcoming election than are those who have n't . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) Latino registered voters who have discussed the immigration debate say they are absolutely certain they will vote in November , compared with just four-in-ten ( 39 % ) of those who have not talked about the immigration debate .
Americans have differing views about some emerging scientific and technological developments . Scientific and technological developments are a key source of innovation and , therefore , change in society . Pew Research Center studies have explored public reactions to emergent developments from genetic engineering techniques , automation and more . One field at the forefront of public reaction is the use of gene editing of babies or genetic engineering of animals . Americans have mixed views over whether the use of gene editing to reduce a baby 's risk of serious disease that could occur over their lifetime is appropriate ( 60 % ) or is taking medical technology too far ( 38 % ) , according to a 2018 survey . Similarly , about six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) said that genetic engineering of animals to grow organs or tissues for humans needing a transplant would be appropriate , while four-in-ten ( 41 % ) said it would be taking technology too far .
Most Muslim Americans ( 64 % ) also say they are dissatisfied with the way things are going in the U.S. – a sharp rise since the Center 's last comprehensive survey of U.S. Muslims in 2011 , when just 38 % took this position and 56 % said they were satisfied with the country 's direction . In stark contrast with their current feelings about Trump , most Muslims in 2011 approved of the job Barack Obama was doing as president ( 76 % ) and very few said he was unfriendly toward their group ( 4 % ) .
Roughly a quarter century after the end of the Soviet era , Russia retains substantial influence throughout many parts of Central and Eastern Europe . Indeed , Russia is widely viewed by the region 's Orthodox Christians as an important counterweight to Western influences and as a global protector of Orthodox and ethnic Russian populations , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of 18 countries in Central and Eastern Europe . Majorities or pluralities in nearly all Orthodox-majority countries surveyed agree that a strong Russia is necessary to balance the influence of the West , and that Russia has an obligation to protect Orthodox Christians and ethnic Russians outside its borders .
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) see the size of the national debt as a major threat to the economic well being of the United States , the highest of five issues tested . A smaller majority ( 59 % ) sees economic competition from China as a major threat , and about as many ( 56 % ) say the same about the power of financial institutions and banks . Only about half ( 46 % ) say the economic problems in Europe pose a major threat to the U.S. economy , and 44 % see government regulation of business as a major threat .
Most unauthorized immigrant adults reside with immediate family members—spouses or children . About half of undocumented adults live with their own children under 18 . Nearly half of unauthorized immigrant households ( 47 % ) consist of a couple with children . That is a greater share than for households of U.S.-born residents ( 21 % ) or legal immigrants ( 35 % ) . This difference stems in large part from the relatively youthful composition of the unauthorized immigrant population . Most children of unauthorized immigrants—73 % in 2008—are U.S. citizens by birth . The number of U.S.-born children in mixed-status families ( unauthorized immigrant parents and citizen children ) has expanded rapidly in recent years , to 4 million in 2008 from 2.7 million in 2003 . By contrast , the number of children who are unauthorized immigrants themselves ( 1.5 million in 2008 ) hardly changed in the five-year period and may have declined slightly since 2005 .
Among those who say it is very important that the tone of political debate is respectful , attitudes on political correctness are split . Equal shares say too many are easily offended and say people need to be more careful about language to avoid offending others ( 50 % each ) .
In the survey , which was in the field as Obama appeared on the Sunday talk shows on Sept. 20 , Americans continue to say they are highly interested in the health care debate : 36 % say it was the story they followed most closely last week , more than double the percentage for any other major story . But despite that interest , relatively few ( 19 % ) say they heard a lot last week about Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus unveiling details of his health care proposal . The debate over health care reform got more media coverage than any other story , taking up 17 % of the newshole analyzed by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . That was down from 32 % of coverage the previous week when Obama delivered his address to Congress . The president also continued to be the top newsmaker as measured by PEJ .
Most Americans ( 57 % ) support the recent decision by South Carolina 's government to remove the flag from the statehouse grounds ; 34 % see this as the wrong decision . Though majorities of whites ( 56 % ) , blacks ( 76 % ) and Hispanics ( 52 % ) say the flag 's removal was the right decision , there are more substantial partisan divides : Fully 74 % of Democrats say this was the right decision , while Republicans are more divided ( 43 % right decision , 49 % wrong decision ) .
From a racial and ethnic perspective , Catholics in the NYC metro area look very similar to U.S. Catholics overall , including about a third who are Hispanic . Fewer D.C.-area Catholics are Hispanic ( 23 % ) , while more in the capital are black ( 15 % ) or Asian ( 10 % ) compared with the country overall .
Many critics have questioned whether Secretary of State John Kerry 's focus on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is worth the effort , given the region 's rich history of diplomatic disappointment , but Kerry has managed to bring the two sides together this week in Washington for their first talks in several years . Polling finds limited optimism about the prospects for peace among Israelis and Palestinians , but many nonetheless welcome a larger American role in negotiating an end to the long running conflict .
Belief in the free market tends to be highest in developing countries ( median of 71 % ) . Nearly two-thirds or more in all nine of the developing economies surveyed agree that most people benefit from capitalism , including 80 % of Bangladeshis , 75 % of Ghanaians and 74 % of Kenyans . Publics in emerging markets also generally support the free market . More than half in 21 of the 25 countries surveyed agree that most people are better off in a free market system even if there is some inequality , including roughly three-quarters or more in Vietnam , China , Nigeria , Turkey , Malaysia and the Philippines . Support is much lower in Colombia , Jordan , Mexico and Argentina . Argentines are the least likely to see the benefits of capitalism among all 44 countries surveyed .
Obama issued 277 executive orders during his eight years in office , or 35 per year . That 's slightly fewer than the 36 per year that George W. Bush issued and the lowest average since Grover Cleveland , who issued 32 per year during his eight nonconsecutive years in office , according to data from the American Presidency Project at the University of California at Santa Barbara . Overall , Obama ranks 16th among presidents in total number of executive orders issued and 21st in the average number issued per year .
How stay-at-home and working moms spend their time : Mothers who are not working for pay spend more time , on average , on child care and housework than do working mothers , but they also have more time for leisure and sleep .
Atheists are among the most knowledgeable about religion . Self-described atheists correctly answer 17.9 questions right , on average , and agnostics get 17.0 questions right . Jews and evangelical Protestants also are among the top performers , getting an average of 18.7 and 15.5 questions right , respectively . Evangelical Protestants get the most questions right about Christianity and the Bible . The survey asked 14 questions about the Bible and Christianity , including questions about biblical figures such as Moses , aspects of Christianity in general and attributes of Protestantism , Catholicism and Mormonism in particular . Evangelical Protestants give the highest number of right answers , answering 9.3 out of 14 on average . Atheists and Mormons also do well , getting an average of 8.6 and 8.5 questions right .
Long-running concerns about India are also reflected in the poll . The dispute between Pakistan and India over Kashmir is cited as a major problem facing the country by no fewer than 88 % . And growing worries about extremism notwithstanding , more Pakistanis judge India as a very serious threat to the nation ( 69 % ) than regard the Taliban ( 57 % ) or al Qaeda ( 41 % ) as very serious threats . Most Pakistanis see the U.S. as on the wrong side of this issue : by a margin of 54 % to 4 % the U.S. is seen as favoring India over Pakistan .
Black Americans are less concerned about made-up news than other national issues . When asked what they think about `` made-up news and information , '' about four-in-ten black adults ( 42 % ) say it is a very big problem , compared with about half of whites ( 51 % ) . They also rank it much lower among a list of potential challenges . Among whites , made-up news draws more concern than seven of the 11 issues asked about . But among blacks , most of these issues are seen as more important than made-up news . Hispanics also rate most other problems as more important than made-up news .
Even so , Latinos say achieving the American dream is n't easy . Only about half ( 51 % ) said they had achieved it so far , and about three-quarters ( 74 % ) said achieving the dream today is hard for people like them .
A separate Pew Research Center survey this spring finds that blacks also are about twice as likely as whites to think there is too little attention paid to racial issues in this country ( 58 % vs. 27 % ) . Smaller shares of black Americans think race and racial issues get too much attention in the country ( 22 % ) or that they get the right amount ( 17 % ) .
Majorities in Lebanon ( 64 % ) , Egypt ( 58 % ) and Jordan ( 56 % ) also have unfavorable views , as does a 42 % -plurality in Turkey . Tunisians are nearly evenly divided , with 40 % expressing positive views and 37 % expressing unfavorable views of the Palestinian leader .
Democrats and Republicans hold sharply different views on the federal government 's role in helping undocumented immigrants affected by the coronavirus . The vast majority ( 85 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the federal government has a responsibility to provide medical care to undocumented immigrants , compared with about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) . Meanwhile , more than half ( 56 % ) of Democrats say the U.S. government has a responsibility to provide economic help to undocumented immigrants who have lost a job , compared with only 14 % of Republicans . Democrats and Republicans have long held starkly different views on issues related to undocumented immigrants and asylum seekers .
Syrians not only filed the most applications , they also had the highest share of approved applications of any asylum-seeker origin group . Among nationalities with the most asylum applications in 2015 and 2016 , estimates show the share of Syrians ( 80 % ) permitted to stay in the European Union , Norway and Switzerland was far higher than the share among Eritreans ( 68 % ) , Somalians ( 38 % ) , Iraqis ( 36 % ) , Sudanese ( 36 % ) and Afghans ( 22 % ) .
By nearly four-to-one ( 47 % to 12 % ) Indians say the United States is today the world 's leading economic power rather than China . However , a third of Indians say China has already replaced or will eventually replace the United States as the world 's leading superpower , possibly a reflection of Beijing 's growing strategic as well as economic influence . Yet Indians are less likely than publics in many countries to see China 's rising hegemony as inevitable , according to a separate Pew Research Center survey in spring 2013 .
Catholics in Philadelphia area are more highly educated than U.S. Catholics overall . While nearly half of U.S. Catholics ( 46 % ) have no more than a high school education , only about a quarter of Philadelphia 's Catholics ( 26 % ) are in that category . And Philadelphia Catholics are twice as likely as all U.S. Catholics to have a postgraduate degree ( 20 % vs. 10 % ) . New York-area Catholics , meanwhile , have roughly the same levels of education as all U.S. Catholics .
For example , about two-thirds ( 68 % ) of Republicans who live in states where about a third or more of voters cast their ballots by mail say they favor allowing any voter to cast their ballot by mail if they want to . This compares with roughly four-in-ten of those who live in states with low rates of voting by mail . There is less variation in views among Democrats . More than eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners – regardless of their state 's rate of 2018 mail voting – say they favor allowing any voter to vote by mail if they want to . However , Democrats in states with higher or more moderate rates of mail-in voting in 2018 are slightly more likely to say they strongly support allowing any voter to vote by mail than those in states where fewer vote by mail .
In several immigrant destination countries , large majorities say immigrants are not more to blame for crime than other groups . This is the case in Canada , the U.S. , France and the UK . Among other countries surveyed , only in South Africa , Sweden and Greece do majorities believe that immigrants are more to blame for crime than other groups . In the Netherlands , Japan , Israel and Germany , opinions are split on the impact of immigrants on crime . In four other countries where views were mixed , substantial shares refused to choose either of the two statements offered – Italy ( 26 % ) , Hungary ( 17 % ) , Poland ( 15 % ) and Russia ( 14 % ) .
About half ( 48 % ) of Hispanics overall said they had serious concerns about their place in the country , according to a Pew Research Center survey of Latino adults fielded in December 2019 . This was particularly true of Hispanic U.S. adults who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , 60 % of whom held this view compared with 26 % of Hispanics who identify as or lean Republican . Conversely , 72 % of Republican Hispanics said they were confident about their place in America , compared with 36 % of Democratic Hispanics .
Democrats are also more likely to support the sanctions and actions taken against Russia as a response . Among those who have heard about the allegations , 51 % of Democrats view the response as about right , while 37 % say the sanctions and actions do not go far enough and just 7 % say they go too far . By comparison , about a third of Republicans ( 35 % ) say the sanctions and actions against Russia go too far , while 39 % say they are about right and just 17 % say they do not go far enough .
Among those ages 16 and older , 40 % of Latinos say this , compared with 26 % of whites and 32 % of blacks . But here , too , the difference is driven entirely by foreign-born Latinos , half of whom say library closings would have a major impact on themselves and their families , while U.S.-born Latinos ' response is much more like the rest of the population ( 29 % say that the closing of their local public library would have a major impact on their family ) . When it comes to the impact the closing of their local public library would have on their community , two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Hispanics say the impact would be a major one , a similar share to that of whites ( 63 % ) and blacks ( 64 % ) . However , immigrant Hispanics are the most likely to see an impact on their community . Some 73 % say this , compared with 58 % of U.S.-born Hispanics .3
In a survey about the future impact of the internet , a solid majority of technology experts and stakeholders said the Millennial generation will lead society into a new world of personal disclosure and information-sharing using new media . These experts said the communications patterns `` digital natives '' have already embraced through their use of social networking technology and other social technology tools will carry forward even as Millennials age , form families , and move up the economic ladder . The highly engaged , diverse set of respondents to an online , opt-in survey included 895 technology stakeholders and critics . The study was fielded by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project and Elon University 's Imagining the Internet Center .
In raw numbers , Turkey hosted more refugees than any other country last year : almost 1.6 million ( or about 2 % of the country 's population ) , including more than 1.5 million refugees from Syria and about 25,000 from Iraq , Iran and Afghanistan . ( The total number of refugees in Turkey has since grown to 2 million , but they 're not allowed to seek permanent asylum there . Some experts say Turkey 's policy contributes to the surge of refugees into European Union countries with more liberal asylum standards . ) Other nations adjoining conflict zones with significant refugee populations relative to their populations are Chad ( 4 % ) , which borders Sudan ; Djibouti , next to Somalia ( 2.5 % ) ; and Mauritania ( 2.2 % ) , which is sandwiched between two conflict areas , northern Mali and Western Sahara .
Americans see fundamental differences between men and women , but men and women have different views on the cause of these differences . Majorities of women who see gender differences in the way people express their feelings , excel at work and approach parenting say differences between men and women are mostly based on societal expectations . Men who see differences in these areas tend to believe biology is the root .
About half ( 53 % ) of Latinos ages 18 to 29 and a similar share of those ages 30 to 49 ( 50 % ) say they or someone in their household has lost a job or had their pay cut because of the coronavirus outbreak . In contrast , 39 % of Latinos 50 and older say the same . Meanwhile , about half of Latinos without a college degree – 50 % with a high school degree or less and 52 % with some college experience – say they or someone in their household has lost a job or had their pay cut . By comparison , a smaller share of Latinos with a college degree ( 37 % ) say they have experienced one of these events . Even so , across all education levels , higher shares of Latinos than of the general public say someone in their household has lost their job , taken a pay cut or both because of the COVID-19 outbreak .
But , also consider : It is one thing to get married , it is another thing to stay married . In spite of the recent uptick in newlyweds since 2011 , it is still the case that fewer adults were currently married in 2012 ( 50.5 % ) than in 2011 ( 50.8 % ) . The share of adults presently married peaked around 72 % in 1960 .
Survey respondents who said they believe in God with no doubts also disagreed most strongly ( 61 % ) with the statement `` In my opinion , life does not serve any purpose . '' Those who said they were certain they did not believe in God or who expressed more uncertainty about their belief were less likely than strong believers to reject the statement that life has no purpose . ( Only 49 % said they strongly disagreed ) . There were no statistically significant differences between those who were uncertain and those who did not believe in God .
In a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January , 94 % of Democrats say they trust what Trump says less than what prior presidents said , while 58 % of Republicans say they trust what Trump says more than what prior presidents said . Similarly , nine-in-ten Democrats say the ethical standards of top Trump administration officials are poor or not good , while around three-quarters of Republicans ( 76 % ) say the administration 's ethical standards are excellent or good .
Scientists ' views have moved in the same direction . Though scientists hold mostly positive assessments of the state of science and their scientific specialty today , they are less sanguine than they were in 2009 when Pew Research conducted a previous survey of AAAS members . The downturn is shared widely among AAAS scientists regardless of discipline and employment sector . Overall , 54 % of adults consider U.S. scientific achievements to be either the best in the world ( 15 % ) or above average ( 39 % ) compared with other industrial countries . Of the seven aspects of American society rated , only one was seen more favorably : the U.S. military . Compared with 2009 , however , the share saying that U.S. scientific achievements are the best in the world or above average is down 11 points , from 65 % in 2009 to 54 % today . More now see U.S. scientific achievements as `` average '' in the global context ( up from 26 % in 2009 to 34 % today ) or `` below average '' ( up slightly from 5 % in 2009 to 9 % today ) . Perceptions of some other key sectors , including U.S. health care , also dropped during this timeframe . See Chapter 2 for details .
Views about the role of government funding as compared with private investment show steady support for government investment ( 61 % in 2014 and 60 % in 2009 ) but , there is a slight rise in the view that private investment , without government funds , will be enough to ensure scientific progress ( from 29 % in 2009 to 34 % today ) . The modest difference over time stems from more expressing an opinion today than did so five years ago .
This survey also finds that half of Americans say President Donald Trump is `` striking about the right balance '' in dealing with the two sides . Roughly a third ( 34 % ) say Trump is favoring the Israelis too much , while 6 % say he is favoring the Palestinians too much . A wide majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 79 % ) say Trump is striking the right balance . Few Republicans say he is favoring either the Israelis ( 11 % ) or the Palestinians too much ( 3 % ) . Conservative Republicans ( 84 % ) and moderate and liberal Republicans ( 73 % ) largely agree that Trump is taking the right approach to the Middle East . About half of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 53 % ) , on the other hand , say Trump is favoring the Israelis too much ; 29 % say he is striking about the right balance , and 8 % say he favors the Palestinians too much . By a wide margin , most liberal Democrats ( 66 % ) say Trump is favoring the Israelis too much . Moderate and conservative Democrats are more divided : 43 % say he is favoring the Israelis too much , while nearly as many say he is striking the right balance ( 38 % ) .
As with overall interest and engagement in politics , there are sizable age differences in how frequently politics comes up in conversation among couples . Only about a quarter of those younger than 30 ( 24 % ) say politics comes up very often in conversation , the lowest share of any age category . Among voters 65 and older , 63 % say they talk about politics with their spouse or partner very often .
Two stories drew far more interest from Republicans than Democrats : 34 % of Republicans followed reports about Hillary Clinton 's use of a private email address as secretary of state very closely , compared with just 16 % of Democrats . Similarly , about twice as many Republicans ( 34 % ) as Democrats ( 18 % ) closely followed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 's speech to Congress last Tuesday . There are smaller partisan differences in interest in the week 's other stories . For instance , comparable percentages of Democrats ( 26 % ) and Republicans ( 22 % ) paid very close attention to arguments at the Supreme Court over the Affordable Care Act ; 30 % of Democrats and 24 % of Republicans very closely followed news about the Department of Justice report on race and policing in Ferguson , Mo .
Younger adults are somewhat more likely than older adults to say that marijuana use should be legal for both medical and recreational use . About two-thirds ( 69 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 say it should be legal for both types of use , compared with 48 % of those ages 65 and older . Most adults 65 and over nonetheless favor legalization in some form .
By comparison , Buddhists tend to say conflict is less common . For example , 27 % of Buddhists in Singapore , 23 % in Taiwan and 19 % in Japan say their religious beliefs at least sometimes conflict with science . Although 44 % of Buddhists in Malaysia say this occurs at least sometimes , as do 49 % of Buddhists in South Korea . In the same Center study using in-depth interviews , many Buddhists interviewees described science and religion as separate spheres . For example , one Buddhist woman in Singapore ( age 26 ) said , `` Science to me is statistics , numbers , texts – something you can see , you can touch , you can hear . Religion is more of something you can not see , you can not touch , you can not hear . I feel like they are different faculties . ''
Some 68 % of second-generation Latinos consider it very important for future generations to be able to speak Spanish . Third-generation Latinos are equally as likely as their second-generation counterparts to state that retaining the ability to use Spanish is very or somewhat important .
Republicans are twice as likely as Democrats to describe China as an enemy , though this is a minority position in both parties . Around four-in-ten Republicans describe China as an enemy ( 38 % ) rather than as a competitor ( 53 % ) or partner ( 8 % ) . Among Democrats , 19 % describe China as an enemy , while 61 % call it a competitor and 19 % say they consider the country a partner .
Asked if it is important to have been born within France 's borders to be truly French , 74 % of National Front adherents say yes , compared with 42 % of the rest of French adults . A similar divide exists in Germany , where those who have a favorable view of AfD ( 75 % ) say one must be born in Germany to truly share the national identity , while only 44 % of other Germans voice such opinions . Family ties to the homeland are also given primacy by those with favorable views of nationalist-populist parties . Roughly three-quarters of AfD backers ( 78 % ) and National Front supporters ( 73 % ) , and more than half of PVV adherents ( 55 % ) , believe it is important that people have family roots in their country to be truly German , French or Dutch . Roughly half or less of other French and Germans and only about a third of other Dutch adults agree .
Urban and rural residents see drug addiction as a major problem in their communities . About half of urban ( 50 % ) and rural ( 46 % ) residents say drug addiction is a major problem where they live ( 35 % of suburbanites say the same ) . Across all community types , those without a bachelor 's degree are more likely to see drug addiction as a major local issue .
The survey of publics in 39 countries finds broad acceptance of homosexuality in North America , the European Union , and much of Latin America , but equally widespread rejection in predominantly Muslim nations and in Africa , as well as in parts of Asia and in Russia . Opinion about the acceptability of homosexuality is divided in Israel , Poland and Bolivia .
Despite the progress that has been made , and widespread optimism about the future , people in sub-Saharan Africa still believe their countries need assistance from abroad . Across the nine nations in the study , a median of 68 % think their country needs more foreign aid than it gets today . The outlier is South Africa , where just 26 % hold this view .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center was conducted June 15 - 26 among 2,245 adults , including 1,655 registered voters . In a two-way contest , 51 % of registered voters support Clinton or lean toward her , while 42 % support or lean toward Trump . In a three-way contest , including Libertarian Party nominee Gary Johnson , 45 % favor Clinton , 36 % support Trump and 11 % back Johnson . As has been the case in recent campaigns , there are stark racial and ethnic differences in candidate support . Trump leads among white , non-Hispanic voters ( 51 % -42 % ) , while Clinton has an overwhelming advantage among African Americans ( 91 % -7 % ) .
Views of China are also more positive in Brazil . While a slim majority of Brazilians ( 52 % ) give China high marks , fewer than half in Argentina ( 45 % ) and Mexico ( 39 % ) offer favorable opinions of the Asian superpower .
Most Americans feel worn out by the amount of news there is these days – a feeling that has persisted for several years now . About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is , while far fewer ( 32 % ) say they like the amount of news they are getting , according to a Pew Research Center survey of more than 12,000 U.S. adults conducted in October and November of last year – the first survey in the Center 's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project . This feeling of news fatigue has n't escaped journalists either , some of whom have voiced their exhaustion with the news cycle and the seemingly endless stream of information . Americans ' exhaustion with the news has n't changed since early 2018 – the last time the Center asked this question – when 68 % felt worn out . And in a similar question asked several months before the 2016 presidential election between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton , nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) felt worn out by the amount of coverage of the campaign and candidates .
Amid this tension between personal privacy and public safety , 52 % of Americans surveyed in early April say it is at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location of those who have tested positive for the virus to understand how the virus is spreading , but a similar share ( 48 % ) believes this is very or somewhat unacceptable to do . At the same time , 45 % of the public says it is acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people who may have had contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19 , while a somewhat larger share ( 54 % ) describes this type of tracking as unacceptable . By comparison , there is less support for monitoring mobile devices to make sure people are following social distancing guidelines . Some 37 % of Americans say it is at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location of people to ensure they are complying with experts ' advice on limiting social contact during the coronavirus outbreak . But a much larger share ( 62 % ) believes this type of cellphone tracking is very ( 43 % ) or somewhat ( 20 % ) unacceptable .
On balance , publics in most of the EU member nations surveyed support Turkish membership in the organization . Majorities in Spain ( 62 % ) and Britain ( 51 % ) favor membership , as do pluralities in Lithuania ( 46 % ) and Poland ( 45 % ) . However , majorities hold the opposite view in two of the EU 's most powerful countries : Germany ( 71 % oppose ) and France ( 61 % ) .
4 For the first time in a Pew Research survey , we asked Americans whether they think businesses that provide wedding services , such as catering or flowers , should be allowed to refuse services to same-sex couples for religious reasons . There was an even split on this question , with 47 % saying that businesses should be allowed to refuse services related to same-sex weddings and 49 % saying they should be required to provide services as they would to all other customers .
Cuban American registered voters have mixed views of Trump heading into the November elections . About half ( 52 % ) say they approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , while 45 % disapprove . By comparison , only 26 % of non-Cuban Hispanic voters approve of Trump and 70 % disapprove . Trump 's ratings among these groups are nearly identical to those in a December 2019 national survey of Latino adults , taken before the coronavirus outbreak . Cuban voters ' assessments of Trump are deeply polarized along party lines : 81 % of Cuban Republicans approve of Trump , while 91 % of Cuban Democrats disapprove of the president . Trump 's approval ratings are similarly partisan – and stable – among U.S. voters overall .
The survey finds that , after nearly a month in office , Obama 's personal image is extremely strong . Overwhelming majorities view Obama as a strong leader ( 77 % ) and trustworthy ( 76 % ) , while an even higher percentage ( 92 % ) says he is a good communicator . Moreover , the belief that Obama represents a break from politics as usual is widespread , despite the highly partisan reaction to his economic stimulus proposal . About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) – including a narrow majority of Republicans – say that Obama `` has a new approach to politics in Washington '' ; that compares with 25 % who say his approach is `` business as usual . ''
Reflecting Republicans ' overwhelming opposition to the Iran nuclear agreement , 69 % of possible GOP primary voters say they would be more likely to support a candidate who wants to end the nuclear agreement . Just 14 % say they would be less likely to support a candidate who takes this position . Most possible GOP primary voters also say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to end federal funding for Planned Parenthood ( 56 % ) and to use U.S. ground forces to fight ISIS ( 53 % ) . Other candidate positions , including deporting all immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally and compromising with Democrats , have less appeal . And as many possible Republican primary voters say they would less likely ( 34 % ) , as more likely ( 31 % ) , to vote for a candidate who wants to raise taxes on wealthy Americans .
Asian workers in the U.S. are the most likely to have completed at least a bachelor 's degree . In 2016 , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Asian workers ages 25 to 29 had at least a bachelor 's degree , compared with 47 % of white workers in this age group . And although the share of young black and Hispanic workers who are college educated has grown , just 27 % of black Millennial workers and 21 % of Hispanic Millennial workers held a bachelor 's degree in 2016 .
Beyond economic considerations , a majority ( 54 % ) of Hispanics say it has become more difficult in recent years to be Hispanic in the U.S . This feeling is even more pervasive among foreign-born Hispanics ( 64 % ) than among the U.S. born ( 44 % ) . And nearly four-in-ten Hispanics say they have experienced at least one of four offensive incidents in the past year because of their Hispanic background , although about as many note that someone has expressed support for them because they are Hispanic . For the 38 % of Hispanics who say they have experienced an incident , these comprise : experiencing discrimination or unfair treatment because of their Hispanic background , being criticized for speaking Spanish in public , being told to go back to their home country , or being called offensive names . Immigrant Hispanics are more likely than U.S.-born Hispanics to report they have experienced most of these incidents .
In addition , a greater share says that trade agreements lead to economic growth than did so five years ago . About a third ( 31 % ) say that free trade agreements make the economy grow , while 34 % think they slow the economy down ; 25 % say they do not make a difference in economic growth . In 2010 , more than twice as many said they made the economy slow ( 43 % ) than grow ( 19 % ) ; 24 % said they made no difference . On the other hand , there has been no improvement since 2010 in opinions about the effect of free trade agreements on wages . Currently , 46 % say free trade deals make the wages of American workers lower , while just 11 % say they lead to higher wages ( 33 % say they do not make a difference ) . The share saying that trade agreements drive down wages is largely unchanged since 2010 , when 45 % said they made wages lower . In addition , trade agreements continue to be seen as doing more to cost jobs than create them . In the new survey , 46 % say free trade agreements lead to job losses in the United States ; just 17 % say they create jobs in this country . That is only somewhat more positive than five years ago , when 55 % said trade deals cost jobs and 8 % said they create jobs .
Many of the typology groups express very different opinions about business than they do about Wall Street . On the question of business profits , 54 % of the public says that businesses make too much profit , while 39 % say that most corporations make a fair and reasonable profit . Staunch Conservatives , who express mixed views of Wall Street , overwhelmingly see corporate profits as reasonable ( by 78 % to 13 % ) . But Main Street Republicans are highly critical of corporate profits ; 58 % say businesses make too much profit , while only about a third ( 34 % ) say most corporations make a fair profit .
By the end of 2005 , 24 % of rural Americans had high-speed internet connections at home compared with 39 % of adult Americans living elsewhere . In 2003 , 9 % of rural Americans had broadband at home , less than half the rate ( 22 % ) in urban and suburban American . For overall internet use – by whatever connection from any location – the penetration rate for adult rural Americans lagged the rest of the country by 8 percentage points at the end of 2005 ( a 62 % to 70 % margin ) . This is about half the gap that existed at the end of 2003 . A consequence of the rural broadband adoption gap is that people in rural America use the internet less frequently , on average , than other Americans and do fewer things online on the average day than urban and suburban users . This is not because rural Americans have different tastes about the internet than people in cities or suburban areas ; it is because rural Americans , in the aggregate , have a lower penetration rate for a key factor behind the intensity of online use – a home high-speed internet connection .
In our 2014 report on Political Polarization in the American Public , we used a scale based on 10 political values questions about the role of government , the environment , homosexuality and other issues to measure the direction and consistency of a person 's ideological thinking . How a person 's political values line up is strongly related to his or her partisanship , and whether political values line up in a consistent way is strongly related to whether he or she participates in politics or not . The financially secure and insecure differ in both the direction and consistency of their political values . In general , the financially secure are more likely to have ideologically consistent views , that is , political values that are consistently liberal or consistently conservative across multiple dimensions . The financially insecure are much less likely to have consistent opinions and values : 51 % hold a diverse mix of liberal and conservative values , compared with just 24 % among the most secure group . People who hold an inconsistent mix of liberal and conservative values are far less likely to be interested in politics , to express a preference between the Democrats and Republicans , to hold strong opinions about the parties or to vote .
Despite relatively few Americans expecting an expansion of U.S. influence after the pandemic , this year has seen a marked increase in the shares that see the U.S. as a top power , both economically and militarily . About six-in-ten Americans think their country has the world 's strongest economy , increasing from only half in 2019 . Similarly , about eight-in-ten think the U.S. is the world 's leading military power , an increase from 72 % in 2016 . In addition , an overwhelming majority of Americans agree that the world would be better off with the U.S. as the leading power , rather than China .
Among Germans , there is far more support for a close relationship with Russia in the former East than in the former West . Nearly four-in-ten East Germans say that they prefer close ties with Russia , compared with only 23 % who say the same about the U.S. And West Germans are twice as likely to prefer a close relationship with the U.S. than with Russia .
Perceptions of the future stability of the government in Afghanistan have become more negative since last measured in June 2011 . Four years ago , the public also had doubts about the ability of Afghanistan to maintain a stable government after the withdrawal of U.S. troops , but doubts outweighed optimism by a narrower margin ( 57 % unlikely vs. 38 % likely ) . Fully 68 % of Americans say it is either very unlikely ( 35 % ) or somewhat unlikely ( 33 % ) that Afghanistan will be able to maintain a stable government after U.S. forces leave the country . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say it is somewhat likely Afghanistan will be able to maintain a stable government and just 5 % say this is very likely .
The Gaza fighting between Israel and Hamas , which escalated from aerial warfare to fierce ground fighting , accounted for 21 % of the newshole from Dec. 29-Jan. 4 , according to the weekly News Coverage Index from the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . The new spasm of Middle East violence attracted significantly more coverage than the No . 2 story , the economic crisis , which filled 14 % of the newshole . Although it had been widely believed that President-elect Barack Obama 's first priority would be working to mitigate that meltdown , last week 's events raised the possibility that the Gaza bloodshed could pose his most immediate challenge instead .
The intensity of that divide was apparent in a survey conducted in April 2014 , leading up to last year 's midterm elections . About two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Republican registered voters said a candidate 's position on the ACA was very important to their vote , compared with 52 % of Democrats and 45 % of independents .
In our new survey examining the public 's attitudes about government , just 25 % say that , `` on the issues that matter , '' their side has been winning more often than it has been losing . More than twice as many ( 64 % ) say their side loses more often than it wins .
When it comes to specific details of Romney 's background and experience , 41 % of voters say they would like to learn more about Romney 's record as governor , 36 % would like to learn more about his tax returns , while 35 % want to know more about his record as chief executive of Bain Capital . Far fewer want to hear more about Romney 's wealth ( 21 % ) , his family and upbringing ( 19 % ) or his religious beliefs ( 16 % ) .
About two-thirds ( 64 % ) believe that the U.S. government probably has collected data about their own phone calls , emails or online communications . This perception is especially prevalent among IRE journalists who cover national security , foreign affairs or the federal government . Fully 71 % of this group say the government has likely collected this data . And eight-in-ten of all journalists surveyed express the belief that being a journalist increases the likelihood that their data will be collected by the U.S. government .
The most notable change has occurred in attitudes toward taking in refugees . In the earlier survey , 61 % said that admitting refugees escaping war and violence was a very or somewhat important goal . In the new survey , the share has increased to 73 % . Shifting views among Republicans account for most of this increase . In 2016 , 40 % of Republicans said admitting refugees was an important goal . Today , a majority of Republicans ( 58 % ) hold this view . The share of Republicans who now say admitting refugees should be a somewhat important goal has risen from 28 % in 2016 to 43 % today . The proportion who say this should be a very important goal has remained essentially the same ( 13 % in 2016 , 15 % today ) .
When he takes office next week , President-elect Donald Trump will inherit an array of global threats in the view of the public . About eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) say ISIS poses a major threat to the well-being of the United States , and 71 % say the same about cyberattacks from other countries .
On the other hand , 47 % of U.S. adults say the federal government should have a major role in advancing space exploration , making it the only area measured that does not have majority support for major government involvement . This stands in contrast to other issues such as curtailing terrorism , responding to natural disasters and ensuring food and medicine safety , for which a vast majority of Americans think government should be heavily involved .
Majorities in most surveyed countries say global climate change is a major threat to their nation . In fact , it 's seen as the top threat in 13 of 26 surveyed countries , more than any other issue the survey asked about .
In most Western countries surveyed , majorities associate Americans with the positive characteristics `` honest , '' `` inventive '' and `` hardworking . '' At the same time , substantial numbers also associate Americans with the negative traits `` greedy '' and `` violent . '' Canadians , who presumably have the greatest contact with Americans , agree with Europeans on the negatives , but are less likely to view Americans as honest . And Canada is the only Western nation in which a majority ( 53 % ) regards Americans as rude .
The California wildfires overshadowed all other news stories last week both in terms of public interest and news coverage . Four-in-ten Americans followed news about the fires very closely , making it the fourth most closely followed news story of the year . The only stories that have attracted a larger audience this year were rising gas prices in May , the Virginia Tech shootings in April , and the Minnesota bridge collapse in August . Nearly half of the public ( 46 % ) listed the California fires as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . Comprising 38 % of the national newshole , the wildfires became the second most heavily covered news story of 2007 . Only the Virginia Tech shootings surpassed the fires in terms of overall news coverage . The fires were covered more intensely on television news outlets than on other sectors — 53 % of network TV news and 51 % of cable news was devoted to the story .
About four-in-ten adults ( 38 % ) say they are `` not too '' or `` not at all '' confident that they will have enough income and assets for their retirement , according to a 2012 survey . That 's up 13 percentage points from the 25 % who expressed that concern in a Pew Research survey in early 2009 .
As they prepare to meet in a vice-presidential debate on Oct. 7 , both Republican Mike Pence and Democrat Kamala Harris elicit more negative than positive feelings from registered voters , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Around half of registered voters ( 51 % ) give Pence `` cold '' ratings , while slightly more than a third ( 36 % ) give him `` warm '' ratings and 12 % have neutral feelings . For Harris , 48 % express cold feelings , 39 % have warm feelings and 13 % give her neutral ratings , according to the Sept. 30-Oct. 5 survey of 11,929 adults , including 10,543 registered voters . The results are based on a `` feeling thermometer '' in which 100 represents the warmest , most positive score and 0 represents the coldest , most negative rating . Ratings above 50 are considered warm , ratings below 50 are considered cold and ratings of 50 are neutral .
The pattern plays out in reverse when it comes to the perceived susceptibility of scientists to bias . Roughly two-thirds of Republicans with high science knowledge ( 64 % ) say scientists are just as likely to be biased as other people , compared with 42 % of those with low science knowledge . In contrast , Democrats with low , medium and high science knowledge are all about equally likely to think scientists are susceptible to bias ( 34 % to 39 % ) .
One-in-five U.S. adults believe that polygamy is morally acceptable , a recent Gallup poll found . This share has almost tripled ( from 7 % ) since the question was first asked in 2003 , but is still among the least accepted behaviors Gallup asks about . Self-described liberals are much more likely than conservatives to see polygamy as morally acceptable ( 34 % vs. 9 % ) . A Pew Research Center survey published in 2013 found that Muslims around the world are divided about polygamy : While majorities in several sub-Saharan African countries and pluralities in parts of the Middle East describe polygamy as morally acceptable , Muslims living in Central Asia as well as Southern and Eastern Europe tend to say that polygamy is immoral .
However , even if space travel does become commonplace , more than half of Americans ( 58 % ) say they would not be interested in going . People who are n't interested in orbiting the Earth in a spacecraft cite a number of concerns , including thinking it would be too expensive or scary or that their health or age would not allow for safe travel . Among the 42 % who would be interested , the most common reason is that they want to experience something unique .
The results of this analysis reveal people are strongly in favor of increased gender equality but share more tepid enthusiasm for increased ethnic , religious and racial diversity . And despite secularization trends , most across the 27 countries surveyed do not oppose a more important role for religion in their society . Across Europe , North America and Australia , there is strong consensus that diversity has increased in their countries . And for the most part , that diversity is welcomed . Two exceptions are Greece , where 62 % oppose a more diverse country , and to a lesser extent Italy , where 45 % oppose diversity . But in the United Kingdom , Canada , the United States , Australia and Spain , roughly six-in-ten say they are in favor of more diversity .
In the four predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , opposition to the war remains nearly universal . Moreover , while large majorities in Western European countries opposed to the war say Saddam Hussein 's ouster will improve the lot of the Iraqi people , those in Muslim countries are less confident . In Jordan , no less than 70 % of survey respondents think the Iraqis will be worse off with Hussein gone .
Prior to `` lockdown light '' in Germany and coronavirus cases soaring past records in early November in the U.S. , Germans were more likely than Americans to say that countries will cooperate more with other countries once the coronavirus crisis is over . In a slight increase from April , near the beginning of the outbreak , 46 % of Germans say that they expect countries will cooperate more with one another , while the share who say that countries will increase their focus on national interests declined 7 percentage points . On the other hand , the belief that countries will become more insular is slightly up among Americans , rising to 35 % from 29 % .
Moreover , there is considerable evidence that the opinion many Muslims have of the United States has gone beyond mere loathing . In this year 's Pew survey , majorities in seven of eight predominantly Muslims nations believe the U.S. may someday threaten their country — including 71 % in Turkey and 58 % in Lebanon . And Muslims are increasingly hostile to Americans as well as America ; in the past , as the 1983 Newsweek survey showed , people did not let their distaste for U.S. policies affect their view of the American people . In addition , an overwhelming percentage in most Muslim nations – and as many as half or more in countries like Brazil and South Korea – said they were disappointed that the Iraqi military put up so little resistance in the war against the United States .
Millennials make up 44 % of Latino eligible voters and are the main driver of growth in the Latino electorate . From 2012 to 2016 , 3.2 million young U.S.-born Latinos came of age and turned 18 , accounting for 80 % of the increase in Latino eligible voters during this time .
People who say they personally know someone who is transgender are more likely than those who do not to say society has not gone far enough in accepting transgender people . About half ( 52 % ) of those who know someone who is transgender say this , compared with 31 % of those who do n't know a transgender person . This is consistent with previous research that has suggested that people who have gay or lesbian acquaintances are more likely than those who do n't to support same-sex marriage . As far as what share of Americans say they know a transgender person , 37 % say they personally do , including 13 % who say they have a close friend or a family member who is transgender ( 9 % say they have a close friend and 6 % have a family member who is transgender ; respondents were allowed to select more than one answer ) . About a quarter of Americans ( 24 % ) say they have an acquaintance who is transgender , while 7 % say they have a transgender co-worker .
No single story dominated Americans ' attention . Nearly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say reports about the condition of the economy was their top story , while 14 % cite news about the candidates for president in 2012 as the story they followed most closely .
As more Americans are going cash-free , a growing share of the public is comfortable being without physical currency . Today , 53 % of Americans say they try to make sure they always have cash on hand just in case they need it . That represents a 7-percentage-point decline from the 60 % who reported this in 2015 . Conversely , just under half ( 46 % ) of Americans `` do n't really worry much about whether they have cash with them , since there are lots of other ways to pay for things . '' That is an increase from 2015 , when 39 % reported this . Roughly four-in-ten who say they do not really worry about carrying cash ( 43 % ) say they do n't use cash for their typical weekly purchases , compared with 18 % of Americans who report that they try to ensure that they always have cash .
At the same time , most Hispanics ( 56 % ) say the U.S. does not have a responsibility to take in asylum seekers from El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras . About 39 % say the U.S. does have this responsibility .
In a similar vein , those who support right-wing populist parties in Europe , many of which are seen by LGBT groups as a threat to their rights , are less supportive of homosexuality in society . In Spain , people with a favorable opinion of the Vox party , which recently has begun to oppose some gay rights , are much less likely to say that homosexuality is acceptable than those who do not support the party . And in Poland , supporters of the governing PiS ( Law and Justice ) , which has explicitly targeted gay rights as anathema to traditional Polish values , are 23 percentage points less likely to say that homosexuality should be accepted by society than those who do not support the governing party .
Yet , despite her low approval ratings , the president is viewed more favorably than her main challengers in the October election , who remain less well known . Roughly half ( 51 % ) have a favorable opinion of Rousseff , who represents the Workers ' Party ( PT ) , about double the share that say the same about Aécio Neves ( 27 % ) , the candidate of the Brazilian Social Democracy Party ( PSDB ) , or Eduardo Campos ( 24 % ) of the Brazilian Socialist Party ( PSB ) . All three candidates have unfavorable ratings hovering around the 50 % mark . Roughly one-in-four do not offer an opinion of Rousseff 's challengers .
When asked about the political views that major technology companies support , fewer than half of Americans ( 43 % ) say these companies support the views of liberals and conservatives equally . Instead , a slight majority feels these companies support the views of one side of the partisan spectrum over the other : 43 % of Americans say the companies support the views of liberals over conservatives , while 11 % say they support the views of conservatives over liberals . The view that major technology companies are more supportive of certain political views is particularly widespread among Republicans . Some 64 % of Republicans ( including Republican-leaning independents ) say major technology companies support the views of liberals over conservatives , and just 28 % say these companies support the views of liberals and conservatives equally . By contrast , 28 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say these companies support liberal views over conservative ones , and 53 % say both groups ' views are supported equally . Just 16 % of Democrats say the companies support the views of conservatives over liberals .
3 Of all the major religious groups in the U.S. , white evangelical Protestants are the most likely to reject evolution . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of white evangelicals say that humans and other living things have always existed in their present form , while roughly one-in-ten white evangelicals ( 8 % ) say that humans evolved through natural processes . On the other end of the spectrum are the unaffiliated , a majority of whom ( 57 % ) said they believe that life evolved through natural processes .
Josef Stalin and Mikhail Gorbachev , the Russian leaders presiding , respectively , over World War II and the fall of the USSR , receive starkly different ratings in Russia . In a 2015 survey , a majority of the Russian public ( 58 % ) believed Stalin played a very or mostly positive role in history . Few people ( 22 % ) felt the same way about Gorbachev .
Different bargains have different value to Americans . A trade-off considered acceptable by 54 % of Americans was having surveillance cameras in the office in order to improve workplace security and help reduce thefts . On the other hand , a scenario involving the use of a `` smart thermostat '' in people 's homes that might save energy costs in return for insight about people 's comings and goings was deemed `` acceptable '' by only 27 % of adults , while 55 % saw it as `` not acceptable . ''
Americans are relying less on television for their news . Just 50 % of U.S. adults now get news regularly from television , down from 57 % a year prior in early 2016 . But that audience drain varies across the three television sectors : local , network and cable . Local TV has experienced the greatest decline but still garners the largest audience of the three , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . From 2016 to 2017 , the portion of Americans who often rely on local TV for their news fell 9 percentage points , from 46 % to 37 % . By comparison , reliance on network TV news declined from 30 % to 26 % . Cable TV news use remained more stable , with 28 % often getting news there last year , compared with 31 % in 2016 . Even after these declines , local TV still has a wider reach overall for news than network and cable . Some demographic groups turn to each of the three television venues more than others , however .
It 's certainly a topic on the minds of average citizens around the world . In a spring 2014 Pew Research Center survey , majorities in all 44 nations polled described the gap between rich and poor as a big problem for their country , and majorities in 28 nations said it was a very big problem . Concerns about inequality are most common in Africa , although they are widespread in wealthier parts of the world as well , especially in European nations such as Greece ( 84 % very big problem ) , Spain ( 74 % ) and Italy ( 73 % ) that were hit hard by the Great Recession . Inequality is also a high-profile topic in the U.S. , where President Obama called for higher taxes on the rich in his State of the Union address . Americans across the ideological spectrum see it as a big problem , including majorities of Democrats ( 89 % ) , independents ( 77 % ) and Republicans ( 60 % ) in the spring 2014 poll . However , the view that inequality is a very big problem is much more common among Democrats ( 59 % ) and independents ( 49 % ) than among Republicans ( 19 % ) , and there is a big partisan divide over how the issue should be addressed .
The American public has clear-cut opinions on both issues at the center of the current debate on immigration policy . A large majority ( 74 % ) favors granting permanent legal status to immigrants brought to the U.S. illegally when they were children , but 60 % oppose a proposal to `` substantially expand the wall along the U.S. border with Mexico '' – a longtime goal of President Donald Trump .
Looking beyond these overall recovery rates , local recycling programs vary considerably in which materials they accept and the degree to which residents must separate different materials . The Pew Research Center survey found that 59 % of the public believes that `` most types of items '' can be recycled in their community ; another 26 % characterize their options as `` some , '' and 13 % say only a few types of items can be recycled where they live . And the people who live in places that strongly encourage recycling also are more likely to say that most types of items can be recycled there .
Most national publics around the world – a global median of 69 % – are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country . By this broad measure of national unease , which may encompass public perception of economic , political , social and security conditions , half or more of the publics in 36 of the 44 nations surveyed say conditions in their society are not good .
Even before being charged with corruption , Brazilian President Michel Temer was less popular than his predecessors . Temer , Brazil 's current leader , has been charged with corruption amid allegations he participated in bribery . But even before the scandal , when Brazilians were asked about their views of the country 's current and previous presidents , Temer 's favorability trailed that of his immediate predecessors , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March and April . In the spring survey , about one-in-five ( 21 % ) Brazilians had a positive view of Temer , including only 2 % who had a very favorable view of him . About a third ( 34 % ) of the public had a favorable view of Temer 's former boss , impeached President Dilma Rousseff . And more than four-in-ten ( 45 % ) had a positive opinion of former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva , who is also under investigation .
But despite these reservations , those who have personally used online dating themselves – or know someone who does – tend to have much more positive attitudes compared to those with little direct exposure to online dating or online daters . For instance , just 55 % of non-users agree that online dating is a good way to meet people , while six-in-ten agree that online dating is more dangerous than other ways of meeting people .
Using social media to check up on former romantic partners is a fairly common practice among social media users . About half of social media users ( 53 % ) say they have used these sites to check up on someone with whom they were in a relationship or whom they used to date . Social media users ages 18 to 49 are far more likely than those ages 50 and older to report using social media to check up on an ex-romantic partner . Seven-in-ten 18- to 29-year-olds report that they have used these platforms to check up on someone they used to date or be in a relationship with . That share is lower – though still a majority – among users ages 30 to 49 and falls sharply among those ages and 50 and older .
This discontinuity between American views of globalization and the sentiments of most people around the world is also evident in public perspectives on the impact of trade . In developing economies , a median of 66 % say trade increases jobs and 55 % say it grows wages . In emerging markets , 52 % say global business ties create jobs and 45 % hold the view that it improves wages . Americans , on the other hand , are among the least likely to say trade creates jobs ( 20 % ) or improves wages ( 17 % ) , exhibiting notably less faith in the benefits of trade than others in advanced economies .
When asked a separate set of questions about whether the use of facial recognition technology is acceptable under certain circumstances , the public again expresses more acceptance of these tools when used by law enforcement agencies than in other situations . A 59 % majority of U.S. adults think it is acceptable for law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition technology to assess potential security threats in public spaces , while just 15 % find this unacceptable . The rest are either unsure if this is acceptable or have not heard of facial recognition technology in the first place . These differences are especially stark in the case of age . Fewer than half ( 42 % ) of 18- to-29-year-olds think it is acceptable for law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition to assess security threats in public spaces . But that share rises to 55 % among those ages 30 to 49 , to 65 % among those ages 50 to 64 , and to 76 % among those 65 and older . Indeed , just 6 % of older Americans think this is an unacceptable use of facial recognition technology . Additionally , a larger share of whites ( 64 % ) finds the use of facial recognition in public spaces by law enforcement to be acceptable relative to the shares of blacks ( 47 % ) or Hispanics ( 55 % ) who say the same . And Republicans ( including those who lean toward the Republican Party ) are somewhat more accepting of facial recognition when used by law enforcement relative to Democrats and Democratic leaners – although a majority of each group finds this acceptable .
In 17 countries , majorities or pluralities say they have confidence in neither Trump nor Xi to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs . This includes nine of the 10 European nations in the survey and all three Latin American publics surveyed . This pattern is especially strong in Spain , France and Brazil , where about six-in-ten or more lack faith in both leaders .
Among the candidates for the Democratic presidential primary , Sanders is followed by the largest share ( 21 % ) of Democrats on the site . A slightly smaller share of Democrats on Twitter follow Warren ( 16 % ) , while 11 % follow Biden and 10 % follow Buttigieg . Former president Barack Obama remains the most-followed major political figure within this group , followed by some 48 % of Democrats on Twitter . Hillary Clinton is followed by about one-in-five Democrats on Twitter ( 21 % ) , while 13 % follow Donald Trump – comparable to the share who follow many of the current Democratic primary candidates .
Will the U.S. Go Too Far – Or Not Far Enough ? Nearly half of Americans ( 48 % ) say their bigger concern about U.S. military action in Iraq and Syria is that it will not go far enough in stopping Islamic militants ; 43 % express the opposite concern – that the U.S. will go too far in getting involved in the situation .
While the issue of gun control remains divisive , there are clear areas of agreement when it comes to a number of gun policy proposals . Fully 85 % of Americans favor making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks , with comparable support from Republicans , Democrats and independents .
Despite these challenges , most Americans ( 65 % ) expect the census to be somewhat ( 55 % ) or very ( 10 % ) successful in producing an accurate national population count , according to a Pew Research Center survey in November . In June , 68 % said so , as did 75 % in a March survey .
Among the 65 % majority of Trump voters who felt warmly toward him in April 2016 , there was much less change in opinions about him . Of this group , 90 % or more maintained warm feelings toward him in September and November 2016 .
Non-broadband adopters can also face substantial challenges engaging in a number of digital job-seeking activities . For instance , 37 % of non-broadband adopters indicate that it would not be easy for them to create a professional resume if they needed to do so ; 30 % would find it difficult to contact an employer via email , or fill out an online job application ; and 27 % would have a hard time finding online lists of available jobs in their area .
Overall , 55 % of the public is very ( 30 % ) or somewhat ( 26 % ) confident in Mueller , while 37 % are not too confident ( 15 % ) or not at all confident ( 22 % ) he will conduct a fair investigation . These attitudes have changed little since December .
On five key domestic issues , around two-thirds or more approve of the job Duterte is doing . This includes 80 % who approve of Duterte 's handling of the economy and 78 % who approve of his handling of illegal-drug issues . Large majorities also support his stance on crime , corruption and terrorism . Duterte 's handling of these issues garners widespread approval within the Philippines , regardless of demographic group .
The survey finds that Hispanics oppose these enforcement measures , often by lopsided margins . Three quarters ( 75 % ) disapprove of workplace raids ; some 79 % prefer that local police not take an active role in identifying illegal immigrants ; and some 55 % disapprove of states checking for immigration status before issuing driver 's licenses . By contrast , non-Hispanics are much more supportive of all these policies , with a slight majority favoring workplace raids and a heavy majority favoring driver 's license checks .2
Opinion leaders are divided over whether the U.S. should pursue policies to ensure that America remains the world 's only superpower . Religious leaders and scientists and engineers — groups that generally support a more limited leadership role for America — believe it would be acceptable if a rival military power emerged . However , most state and local government officials , military leaders , and foreign affairs experts say U.S. policies should be aimed at retaining America 's status as the sole military superpower . Half of the public also favors U.S. policies to maintain America 's position as the only superpower , while 35 % say it would be acceptable if China , another country , or the European Union became as militarily powerful as the U.S .
Majorities across all major religious groups support a school-based requirement for the MMR vaccine . However , white evangelical Protestants ( 20 % ) are slightly more likely than white mainline Protestants ( 11 % ) to think that parents should be able to decide whether to have their children vaccinated .
The only national institution asked about in the survey that has a positive rating from Turks is the military . About half ( 52 % ) of the public say that the military is having a good influence on the way things are going in Turkey , while 37 % say it is having a bad influence . Turks are divided on many of the other major institutions in their country . Nearly equal numbers say that the police , national government and religious leaders are either a good or bad influence . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say that the court system has a good effect on the nation , but 48 % rate its influence as bad .
The Obama administration 's decision to exchange five Taliban prisoners for U.S. solider Bowe Bergdahl tied with reports about problems with care at veterans hospitals around the country as the public 's top story last week . Overall , 34 % say they very closely followed each news story .
Black South Africans hold significantly more favorable views of the ANC compared with other racial groups . Nearly three-quarters of blacks in South Africa say they hold very favorable or somewhat favorable opinions of the country 's leading party , the ANC – which was once led by the country 's first democratically elected president , Nelson Mandela , and has historically carried strong support from blacks . By contrast , only 27 % of white and 30 % of coloured South Africans say they view the ANC favorably . ( Note : The term `` coloured '' is commonly used in South Africa to describe people of multiple races . It is used throughout this post to reflect survey question wording . ) The Democratic Alliance ( DA ) , which has established itself as the main opposition party in this year 's election , garners significantly higher favorability measures among white ( 80 % favorable ) and coloured ( 69 % ) South Africans as of 2018 . Conversely , only about three-in-ten blacks say they have positive opinions of the DA .
There are partisan differences in views of government support for all groups included in the survey . However , the gap is somewhat narrower in views of government help for older people than for other groups . While 73 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the federal government does not do enough for older people , a smaller majority of Republicans ( 58 % ) say the same . The partisan gap is much wider in views of government help for younger people . Nearly seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) say the federal government does not provide enough help for younger people . Republicans are divided : Nearly equal shares say the government does too little ( 29 % ) and too much ( 27 % ) for younger people , while 36 % say it provides about the right amount of help . In addition , there are sizable age differences in views of government help for younger people – but not in how much the government does for older people . A majority of those younger than 50 ( 58 % ) say the government does not do enough for younger people , compared with 44 % of those 50 and older . Nearly identical shares of those under 50 ( 65 % ) and those 50 and older ( 66 % ) say the federal government does not do enough for older people .
In late 2002 , in the run-up to U.S. military conflict , it was older adults who were the most dovish about military action in Iraq . While adults under 30 favored military action by three-to-one ( 69 % favor-23 % oppose ) , adults 65 and older offered less support ( 51 % -31 % ) . And during the past decade of Pew Research polling , adults 65 and older consistently have been the least likely to say the U.S. made the right decision in using military force in Iraq .
Most American Catholics are comfortable with family arrangements that have been traditionally frowned upon by the church . For example , most U.S. Catholics say it is at least `` acceptable '' – and many say it is just `` as good as '' any other arrangement – for children to be raised by unmarried parents , gay or lesbian parents , single parents or divorced parents . Majorities also are accepting of a husband and wife who choose not to have children , a man and woman living together romantically without being married , and a same-sex couple living together . Among all U.S. adults who were raised Catholic , half ( 52 % ) have left the church at some point in their life . This includes some whose departure was only temporary : 11 % of all people raised Catholic left the church but later returned . But about four-in-ten of those raised Catholic now do not identify as Catholic by religion , including 28 % who do not identify as Catholic in any way ( `` ex-Catholics '' ) .
The Indian public voices much enthusiasm for this kind of so-called `` greenfield '' investment arrangement , in which a company establishes operations in a foreign country . A majority believes that foreign companies building new factories in India has a good impact on their country , including 24 % who say this is very good . This type of investment is more popular than foreign mergers and acquisitions , where a foreign company buys a domestic company outright . Just 43 % of Indians say it 's good when foreign companies buy Indian companies , compared with 47 % who think that has a bad impact on their nation .
Americans with lower family incomes are also more supportive of parental choice and less supportive of mandatory MMR vaccination . About two-in-ten lower-income Americans ( 21 % ) say parents should be able to decide not to vaccinate for MMR , while just 9 % of upper-income Americans say the same .
Only about a quarter ( 26 % ) of Trump voters say the president-elect should appoint Democrats to serve in his administration . Twice as many ( 52 % ) say it does not matter , while 21 % say Trump should not name Democrats to his cabinet . In 2008 , after Obama 's first victory , 52 % of voters who supported him said he should appoint Republicans to his cabinet , double the share of Trump backers who favor Democrats in his cabinet today .
On balance , French adults who identify as Christian are slightly more likely than people who identify as religiously unaffiliated ( that is , atheist , agnostic or having no particular religion ) to agree with anti-Jewish stereotypes , and they are slightly less likely to say they would accept Jews as relatives and neighbors . For example , 88 % of Christians in France say they would accept Jews as neighbors , while 94 % of the religiously unaffiliated in France say this . Respondents identifying with right-wing political ideology are considerably more likely to agree with the negative statements about Jews . The survey did not reach enough Muslims – who constitute France 's third-largest religious group , after Christians and the religiously unaffiliated – to allow for a nationally representative sample of their views .
While there have been some notable challenges in using this type of technology in medicine , most Americans predict it to be the norm in the coming decades . Roughly eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 79 % ) say that in the next 20 years doctors will use computer programs to diagnose and treat most diseases , including 21 % who say this will definitely happen . The Center 's survey finds that roughly two-thirds of Americans expect that in the next 20 years most stores will probably ( 52 % ) or definitely ( 13 % ) be fully automated and involve little interaction between customers and employees .
But far smaller shares of the public expect that Trump and Democrats will work together : Half of Americans say it is at least somewhat likely Trump will work with Democrats in Washington to address important issues facing the country , while roughly as many ( 47 % ) expect Democrats in Washington will work with Trump . Democrats , in particular , are skeptical that Trump will cooperate with their party : Just 31 % of Democrats ( compared with 73 % of Republicans ) say Trump is likely to work with Democrats in Washington .
This week , Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. would resettle 85,000 global refugees in the coming fiscal year and 100,000 in fiscal 2017 , marking a significant – though far from historic – increase in taking in the world 's most desperate . Conflicts in the Middle East , Africa and elsewhere are driving hundreds of thousands of refugees to Europe , creating a humanitarian crisis that European leaders have been struggling to manage . Pope Francis has called on Europe 's Catholics to do more to house refugees , and he is expected to address the issue again during his current U.S. visit .
Biden voters are more likely than Trump voters to say they contributed money to candidates running for office ( 28 % of Biden voters vs. 21 % of Trump voters ) or worked or volunteered for a political campaign ( 8 % vs. 3 % ) . Among voters who contributed money to a campaign , about half say they gave less than $ 100 and about half say they gave $ 100 or more . Identical shares of Trump voters who contributed money and Biden voters who contributed money say they gave less than $ 100 ( 49 % of both groups ) .
A similar pattern emerges when it comes to a variety of religious concepts , such as miracles , the existence of the soul , or fate . For most religious beliefs mentioned in the survey , the Czech Republic has among the lowest levels of belief in the region , and typically falls far below the regional median . For example , 19 % of Czechs believe in hell , compared with a regional median of 54 % – which includes roughly six-in-ten adults in Poland ( 62 % ) and Croatia ( 60 % ) . But that does not mean that the country is entirely devoid of religious or supernatural beliefs . Despite relatively low levels of belief in each concept , a majority of the Czech public ( 65 % ) believes in at least one of the nine concepts included in the survey ( belief in God plus the eight items in the accompanying chart ) . Even among religiously unaffiliated Czechs , 52 % believe in at least one of the concepts , including about a third ( 32 % ) who believe in fate ( i.e. , that the course of one 's life is largely or wholly preordained ) . And Czechs overall are much more likely to believe in the existence of the soul and fate than they are to believe in God .
Men have accounted for a majority of newly enrolled foreign students at U.S. colleges and universities since 2004 .
The internet ranks high among sources of information and advice that people are seeking during hard times , especially when it comes to their personal finances and economic circumstances . At the same time , broadcast media outpace the internet as sources of news about national economics and broadcast sources still overshadow the internet among all Americans for information and advice related to their personal financial circumstances .
About one-in-ten ( 12 % ) say they very closely followed news about tensions between Great Britain and Iran following an attack on the British embassy by Iranian protesters ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the situation in Iran accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Western Europeans are divided over the impact of immigration on their nation 's culture , security and economy , particularly along ideological lines . For example , a third or more in each country surveyed say immigrants increase the risk of terrorism in their nation , with Germans and Italians the most likely to express this view . Within each country , left-right ideology tends to influence these opinions more than populist views do . People on the right are at least 20 percentage points more likely than those on the left to say immigrants increase the risk of terrorism in their country . Still , in most countries , populist views also matter – the populist groups studied tend to be more negative toward immigrants on the security issue than their mainstream counterparts are .
Looking ahead , there is shared optimism about scientific efforts to confront COVID-19 . Large majorities of U.S. adults , and members of both parties , expect the year ahead to include an effective treatment or cure for COVID-19 ( 83 % ) as well all as a vaccine to prevent the disease ( 73 % ) . And 72 % of U.S. adults say they would definitely ( 42 % ) or probably ( 30 % ) get a coronavirus vaccine if one were available today , while about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they would not . Majorities across a range of demographic groups say they would get the vaccine . Most Democrats say they would get vaccinated by a margin of 79 % to 21 % . Republicans are slightly less inclined ; 65 % say they would definitely or probably get a vaccine while 34 % say they would decline .
Venezuelans on the political left are consistently more supportive of government policies , more positive on Maduro and less concerned about major problems affecting the country compared with people on the political right . The left-leaning are also more keen to follow former President Hugo Chávez 's policies and want Maduro ( who was vice president under Chávez ) to do the same . And people on the political left are more positive about the direction of the country . Still , fewer than half on the left say the country is on the right path . Meanwhile , Chávez 's legacy continues to loom . When asked whether their country should follow Chávez 's policies , 43 % of the public says yes , while just about half ( 52 % ) say that Venezuela should not follow his policies .
Respondents who fixed their broken technology themselves were also significantly less likely to report being confused than those who found other solutions or were unable to fix their devices . Some 29 % of fix-it-yourselfers reported being confused , compared with 49 % of those who consulted friends and family , 42 % of those who contacted user support and 46 % of those who could not fix the problem .
And among those who say that most or all of their family shares their political views , a wide majority ( 70 % ) says their family is `` okay with '' talking about politics , while just 30 % say their family tries to avoid the subject . However , among those who say almost no one or just a few people in their family share their political views , a 59 % majority says their family tries to avoid talking about politics , while a smaller share ( 41 % ) says their family finds such discussions acceptable .
Support for the increased use of fracking has declined . Overall , 41 % favored the increased use of fracking to extract oil and natural gas from underground rock formations while 47 % are opposed , according to last November 's poll . In March 2013 , there was more support ( 48 % ) than opposition ( 38 % ) to increased use of the drilling technique . Republicans support increased fracking far more than Democrats , by a 62 % to 29 % margin . There was a particularly dramatic change of views in the Midwest where increased use of fracking is now opposed by a 47 % to 39 % margin compared with the majority who favored its use in 2013 .
Education is even more strongly associated with researching a new congregation – perhaps because people generally learn more research skills the longer they stay in school . For example , 71 % of college graduates talked to church members before choosing a new congregation , compared with 63 % among those with a high school degree or less .
The notion that a person can be Jewish even without observing the Sabbath or believing in God may be tied to the idea held by many Jews that being Jewish is more about ancestry or culture than about religion . Indeed , a plurality of Jews in Israel ( 55 % ) and a majority in the U.S. ( 62 % ) say this is the case for them personally , although 23 % in each country say their Jewish identity is about religion and ancestry/culture equally . About one-in-five Israeli Jews ( 22 % ) and a slightly smaller share of American Jews ( 15 % ) say being Jewish , to them , is primarily about religion . Orthodox Jews in both countries are particularly likely to take this position .
According to our survey , fully 21 % of mixed-race adults have attempted to influence how others saw their race . About one-in-ten multiracial adults have talked ( 12 % ) , dressed ( 11 % ) or worn their hair ( 11 % ) in a certain way in order to affect how others saw their race . A similar share ( 11 % ) say they associated with certain people to alter how others saw their racial background . ( The survey did not ask respondents to identify which race or races they sought to resemble . )
There are more modest differences by gender and race and ethnicity . Women are more likely than men to say they regularly use these devices ( 25 % vs. 18 % ) . Hispanic adults are more likely than whites to report regularly wearing a fitness tracker ( 26 % vs. 20 % ) , while black adults fall in between at 23 % .
Today , Eastern European countries like Kosovo and Albania still contribute to the overall flow of asylum seekers into the EU , Norway and Switzerland , but about half of refugees in 2015 trace their origins to just three countries : Syria , Afghanistan and Iraq . Conflicts , both fresh and long-standing , in each of these states have led to the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people . Some have been displaced within their homelands ; others have sought refuge in neighboring countries ; and still others have made the often perilous journey to Europe ( and elsewhere ) to seek asylum .
Today , 76 % of the public says that prescription drug abuse is an extremely or very serious public health problem in America , compared with 63 % who said the same in 2013 . Just 22 % regard prescription drug abuse as a somewhat serious or less serious problem , down from 34 % in 2013 . Concerns about mental illness are also up slightly from 2013 . Currently , 72 % say mental illness is an extremely or very serious public health problem , compared with 67 % who said this four years ago , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Oct. 25 - 30 among 1,504 adults . Other public health concerns are largely unchanged since 2013 . Eight-in-ten Americans now say cancer is an extremely or very serious problem , while 71 % say the same for obesity ; similar shares said this in 2013 . The shares today saying that alcohol abuse ( 52 % ) , smoking ( 51 % ) and AIDS ( 47 % ) are at least very serious public health concerns are little changed from four years ago and remain lower than other problems asked about .
This year more Hispanics in Florida are registered as Democrats ( 513,252 ) than as Republicans ( 445,526 ) . As recently as 2006 , the reverse was true : among Latino registered voters in Florida , more were Republican ( 414,185 ) than Democratic ( 369,906 ) .3
Much has been made of the deep values differences that divide Americans and Western Europeans . Americans prize individualism and personal empowerment more than do Western Europeans . There is much more support for an extensive social safety net in Europe than in the U.S. And perhaps more than any other issue , religion has come to define the transatlantic values gap . Among wealthy nations , Pew has found , the United States is the most religious nation – in sharp contrast to mostly secular Western Europe . A 58 % majority in the U.S. views belief in God as a prerequisite to morality – just a third of Germans and even fewer Italians , British and French agree .
Despite their differing views of abortion and other religious issues , Americans generally see the high court as impartial toward religion . Seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 69 % ) say the court is neutral toward religion , while 18 % say the court is friendly toward religion and 11 % say it is unfriendly , according to a 2019 survey . Majorities of both Republicans ( 75 % ) and Democrats ( 65 % ) – as well as Christians ( 72 % ) and religious `` nones '' ( 65 % ) – say the court is neutral toward religion . The survey also found that 76 % of white Protestants who are not evangelical , 72 % of Catholics and 72 % of white evangelical Protestants see the court as neutral toward religion .
March 3 is `` Super Tuesday '' on this year 's Democratic presidential nominating calendar – the biggest single day in both number of elections and the total number of delegates at stake . All told , 1,357 delegates , or about 34 % of all pledged delegates to this summer 's Democratic National Convention , will be chosen in 14 state primaries and one territorial caucus ( American Samoa ) . And a weeklong `` global primary '' for overseas Democratic voters also starts March 3 , with 13 delegates at stake . While clearly significant , this year 's Super Tuesday is by no means the `` super-est '' – or the earliest – one the Democratic Party has ever had . By both contests held and delegates awarded , the party 's biggest Super Tuesday was Feb. 5 , 2008 – 1,688 delegates , more than 47 % of the pledged total , were chosen in 24 primaries and caucuses , a haul so impressive that it was dubbed `` Super-Duper Tuesday '' and `` Tsunami Tuesday . '' ( This post focuses on the Democrats because Republicans are n't having a competitive nomination contest this year . )
There also is broad public agreement that the president-elect will need to be more cautious in expressing his views once he takes office . About eight-in-ten Americans ( 82 % ) – including large majorities of Republicans and ( 76 % ) and Democrats ( 90 % ) – say that once he takes office , Trump `` will need to be more cautious about the kinds of things he says and tweets . '' Just 15 % of the public says there is no need for Trump to change the kinds of things he says and tweets .
Assessments of the law over the coming years vary widely by income as well . People with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more say the tax law 's personal impact will be more positive than negative . Those with lower incomes have less favorable expectations for the law . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) of those with incomes of at least $ 100,000 say the law will have a mostly positive personal impact , while just 20 % expect negative effects ( 35 % say it will not have much effect ) . Among those with incomes of $ 75,000- $ 99,999 , 44 % say the law 's personal impact will be mostly positive compared with 19 % who say it will be mostly negative ; 30 % expect not much of an effect .
Science knowledge is strongly related to people 's views of how industry funding affects the reliability of research findings . Those with higher levels of science knowledge are less trusting of research that has received funding from industry groups than are people with medium or low knowledge levels ( 80 % with high science knowledge trust this research less vs. 55 % and 30 % , respectively ) . Men are slightly more likely than women to distrust industry-funded research ( 61 % vs. 54 % , respectively ) , as are white Americans ( 65 % ) compared with black ( 41 % ) or Hispanic ( 49 % ) Americans . People ages 50 and older are more likely than younger adults to distrust industry-funded research findings .
Democrats – especially liberals – are deeply skeptical that the White House will make serious efforts to block Russia from intervening in future elections . A large majority of liberal Democrats ( 70 % ) , along with about half ( 51 % ) of the party 's conservatives and moderates , say they are `` not at all confident '' the administration will make serious efforts .
White adults ( 79 % ) are more likely to say they have responded to the 2020 census than adults who are Hispanic ( 74 % ) or Black ( 66 % ) . In part , this reflects current response patterns : Based on local-level response rates published by the Census Bureau , heavily Black or Hispanic neighborhoods have lower participation rates so far than heavily white neighborhoods , according to the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York . U.S. Black and Hispanic populations have been undercounted in past censuses , according to the Census Bureau 's own research , while the white population has been overcounted . Adults ages 18 to 29 also are less likely to say they have participated than adults in each older age group . A little over half of young adults ( 56 % ) say they or someone else in their household returned the census form , compared with 76 % of adults ages 30 to 49 and even higher shares in age groups older than that .
Overall , the public expresses modest levels of trust in major technology companies to do what is right . Only 3 % of Americans think these companies can be trusted to do what is right just about all of the time , notably smaller than the share ( 14 % ) that thinks they can hardly ever be trusted . In total , some 28 % of Americans think these companies can be trusted to do the right thing most of the time or always , while a total of 72 % think they can be trusted to do the right thing some of the time or hardly ever .
Lawmakers , advocates and social media companies have been looking into ways to curtail online harassment in the wake of high-profile cases concerning cyberbullying and online threats . A January 2017 survey found that online harassment is a fairly common feature of online life : 41 % of Americans said they have experienced some form of it , and among those ages 18 to 29 , the share was 67 % .
Our March survey found that most Americans ranked the stock market last among six factors affecting their finances . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) said gas prices had the greatest impact on their wallets , followed by prices for food and consumer goods ( 58 % ) , the federal deficit ( 39 % ) , the jobs situation ( 39 % ) and real estate values ( 32 % ) . Only 23 % cited the stock market as an important factor .
According to the new Hispanic survey , about six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Hispanic immigrants and 46 % of all Hispanics say they worry `` a lot '' or worry `` some '' that they themselves , a family member or a close friend could be deported . By contrast , just 18 % of Asian-American immigrants and 16 % of all Asian Americans say the same .
6 A rising share of them cite `` usability '' issues as their main barrier : 32 % now say they do n't use the internet because they say it is not easy for them to use . These non-users say it is difficult or frustrating to go online , they are physically unable , or they are worried about other issues such as spam , spyware and hackers . This figure is considerably higher than in earlier surveys . In 2009 when we asked that same question , only 12 % of offline Americans cited usability issues as a reason for not being online .
For instance , 79 % of Americans say that restrictions on power plant emissions can make a difference in reducing the effects of global climate change . Three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say corporate tax incentives to encourage carbon emission reductions among businesses can make a difference , and roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say the same about tougher fuel efficiency standards for cars and trucks . Americans are somewhat less optimistic about tax incentives to encourage more people to drive hybrid and electric cars . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) think this would make a difference in reducing the effects of global climate change .
There are again some differences in attitudes by demographic characteristics and political affiliation . For example , roughly four-in-ten black adults ( 43 % ) and about a third of Hispanic adults ( 31 % ) say it is very or somewhat important that the professional athletes they support share their political views , but just 15 % of white adults hold this view . In contrast , a majority of white Americans ( 58 % ) say it 's not too or not at all important that professional athletes share their political views .
By contrast , among Democratic candidate supporters , the share saying they are very confident their own vote will be counted accurately is significantly higher than in 2008 or 2004 . Two-thirds of Clinton supporters are very confident their vote will be accurately counted today , compared with about half of Barack Obama 's supporters in 2008 ( 52 % ) and John Kerry 's supporters in 2004 ( 48 % ) .
Liberal Biden supporters are especially likely to prioritize climate change in their 2020 vote . Nearly eight-in-ten Biden supporters who describe their political views as liberal ( 79 % ) say climate change is a very important election issue , compared with a somewhat smaller majority of moderate and conservative Biden voters ( 60 % ) . Climate change ranks higher on the minds of White and Hispanic than Black Biden voters . About half of Black Biden supporters ( 54 % ) consider climate change to be very important to their vote ; larger shares of Hispanic ( 75 % ) and White ( 71 % ) Biden supporters say the same .
Religious people tend to be more skeptical of embryonic gene editing than those who are less religious . Only 34 % of highly religious adults ( based on an index of common measures ) say they would want to employ gene editing to reduce their child 's risk of disease . Among those who have a low level of religious commitment , almost twice as many ( 63 % ) tell us they would want to use the technology on their children . Highly religious Americans tend to see gene editing as crossing a line and `` meddling with nature , '' while those who are less religious are more inclined to say it is no different than other ways humans have tried to better themselves .
Currently , 49 % saying their family 's income is falling behind the cost of living , while 40 % feel they 're staying about even and just 9 % feel like they 're getting ahead . These views are little changed over the past two years , though the share saying they are falling behind financially is lower today than in 2014 or early 2015 .
As has been the case over the past four years , the Republican Party is viewed as more extreme in its positions than the Democratic Party . Currently , 52 % say the GOP is more extreme , compared with 35 % who say this better describes the Democratic Party .
About three-quarters of conservative Republicans ( 77 % ) continue to say the Supreme Court should base its rulings on the Constitution 's original meaning rather than its meaning in current times ( 21 % ) . But moderate and liberal Republicans are more divided : 50 % favor an interpretation based on the Constitution 's original meaning , compared with 46 % who say the court should base its rulings on a current interpretation . Ideological differences are less pronounced among Democrats . Liberal Democrats ( 88 % ) overwhelmingly say the Supreme Court should base its rulings on the Constitution 's meaning in current times , as do a majority ( 70 % ) of conservative and moderate Democrats . Views on constitutional interpretation also vary by age , even within both partisan coalitions . Americans 50 and older are divided , with 47 % saying the Supreme Court should base its rulings on what the Constitution currently means and 49 % saying they favor an interpretation based on the document 's original meaning . But among Americans younger than 50 , 64 % say the high court should base rulings on the Constitution 's current meaning , compared with 33 % who say decisions should be based on the original meaning .
Again , there are differences in the views of whites and minorities on these questions . While 75 % of Hispanics and 70 % of blacks would like training on how to use online resources to find trustworthy information , the same is true for 55 % of whites . Three-quarters of Hispanics and 66 % of blacks would like training on using computers , smartphones and the internet , compared with 48 % of whites .
These states have metro areas that are home to large technology and finance hubs such as San Jose , Dallas , Houston and New York City . New Jersey had 9.4 visa approvals per 1,000 workers , the highest ratio in the nation . Maryland had the second-highest ratio , with 4.9 H-1B approvals per 1,000 workers .
About a quarter of U.S. adults ( 24 % ) say tax rates on corporations and large businesses should be lowered , while roughly twice as many ( 52 % ) say they should be raised . Another 21 % say corporate tax rates should be kept the same as they are now .
Just over half of the public ( 53 % ) say they followed news about Hurricane Sandy and the storm 's impact very closely last week , outpacing interest in the 2012 presidential election ( 47 % very closely ) and news about the U.S. economy ( 38 % very closely ) .
More than half of men ( 55 % ) say they are in favor of the death penalty and 38 % are opposed . Women 's views are more divided : 43 % favor the death penalty , 45 % oppose it .
Americans are more wary of economic globalization . About half of Americans ( 49 % ) say U.S. involvement in the global economy is a bad thing because it lowers wages and costs jobs ; only 44 % think it is a good thing because it creates new markets and opportunities for growth . Europeans tend to embrace economic globalization , although Greece is a clear exception .
Several other policing proposals draw broad support as well : 90 % of the public favors a federal government database to track officers accused of misconduct . Three-quarters support giving civilian oversight boards the power to investigate and discipline officers accused of misconduct , and similar shares favor requiring officers to live in the places they police and outlawing police use of chokeholds or strangleholds .
Many Europeans are dissatisfied with the way democracy is working , but there is considerable variation by country . Those living in Sweden are the most positive about the state of democracy in their country ( 72 % satisfied ) . Majorities in the Netherlands , Poland , Germany , Lithuania and the Czech Republic are also satisfied . On the other hand , roughly two-thirds or more in Greece , Bulgaria , the UK , Italy and Spain are not satisfied with the state of democracy in their country . Russians and Ukrainians are also less than happy with how democracy is working in their respective countries .
On balance , Americans today tend to be more concerned about China 's economic strength than its military prowess . Still , the share of the public that believes China is primarily a military threat has risen somewhat over time . In 2012 , 28 % were more concerned about China 's military strength , while 36 % now hold this view . Although economic concerns about China have become less prevalent in recent years , many Americans are still worried about China 's economic strength . The amount of American debt held by China , for instance , is the top concern among the eight sources of tension between the two countries included in the survey .
Many Americans expect certain professions to be dominated by automation in their lifetime – but few see their own jobs at risk . Roughly three-quarters of Americans think it 's realistic that robots and computers might one day do many jobs currently done by humans , and sizable majorities expect jobs such as fast food workers and insurance claims processors to be performed by machines within their lifetimes . Yet just 30 % of American workers expect their own jobs or professions to become automated .
A wide majority of voters say voting was `` very easy '' for them personally , regardless of how or when they voted . Overall , 77 % of those who voted in person say voting was very easy for them . Slightly fewer of those who report voting by mail say the same ( 72 % ) . There is little difference between the two groups in the share saying it was difficult . Voters who cast their vote before Election Day are just as likely as those who voted on Election Day to say the experience was easy : 75 % of early voters say it was very easy for them compared with 77 % of those who turned out on Election Day .
Minorities of people express strong trust in scientists ' understanding of the causes of climate change ( 28 % ) or the health effects of eating GM foods ( 19 % ) , saying that scientists understand these matters `` very well . '' About half of people ( 47 % ) say the same about medical scientists ' understanding of the health effects of the MMR vaccine .
Majorities say the feminist movement and the Democratic Party have done at least a fair amount when it comes to institutions and groups that have helped advance women 's rights . Seven-in-ten Americans say the feminist movement has done a great deal or a fair amount to advance women 's rights in the U.S. , while 59 % say the same about the Democratic Party . Far fewer ( 37 % ) say the Republican Party has done at least a fair amount to advance women 's rights .
Many Americans remain uncomfortable with electing a president who does n't believe in God , as evidenced by a recent Pew Research survey . Asked about a list of traits and how each would impact their likelihood of supporting a presidential candidate , about half ( 53 % ) of Americans said they would be less likely to support an atheist .
In 30 of the 34 countries surveyed , majorities or pluralities think men and women in their country have about the same opportunities when it comes to expressing their political views . About half in Japan also believe this , but an identical share says men have more opportunities than women .
Americans are also less accepting of implanted devices that would result in more dramatic rather than modest changes in the recipient . For example , the public is closely divided over whether an implanted device that improves a person 's mental functioning to a level equal to their current peak abilities would be appropriate or taking technology too far . By a ratio of more than two-to-one , people are much more likely to say that implanting devices that dramatically increase a person 's peak abilities would be taking technology too far .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
But agreeing on a budget resolution has itself often proven problematic . Although the Congressional Budget Act establishes April 15 as the target date , Congress frequently misses that deadline ( this year , for example , the resolution was n't agreed to till Oct. 26 ) – or , as in six of the seven most recent fiscal years , never adopts a formal budget resolution at all . Next , Congress is supposed to pass a series of separate bills funding various agencies and activities of the federal government . ( For the past decade , the number of spending bills has stood at 12 , one for each subcommittee of the House and Senate appropriations committees . ) The deadline for doing that is Oct. 1 , when the new fiscal year starts . But since 1997 , Congress has never passed more than a third of its regular appropriations bills on time , and usually has done considerably less than that : For instance , for six straight years ( fiscal 2011 through 2016 ) , not a single spending bill was passed by Oct. 1 .
But in this new survey , three times as many respondents said being black would help Obama ( 32 % ) with Latino voters than said it would hurt him ( 11 % ) ; the majority ( 53 % ) said his race would make no difference to Latino voters .
Similarly , impressions of news about gas prices remain more negative than positive ( 44 % bad news , 32 % mixed news , 15 % good news ) . These ratings also are somewhat worse than they were in February .
Attitudes are mixed on immigrants ' willingness to adopt the destination country 's customs or wanting to be distinct from its society . A median of 49 % among countries surveyed say immigrants want to be distinct from the host country 's society , while a median of 45 % say immigrants want to adopt the host country 's customs and way of life .
Earth Day takes place on April 22 each year . One issue at the center of public discussions about the environment is global warming : whether it is occurring and what its causes might be . An analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Forum on Religion & Public Life of a 2008 survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press examines views on global warming among major religious traditions in the U.S . The unaffiliated ( 58 % ) are the most likely among the religious groups studied to say there is solid evidence the earth is warming because of human activity . White evangelical Protestants are the most likely to say there is no solid evidence the earth is warming ( 31 % ) , and the least likely to believe that humans have contributed to heating up the planet ( 34 % ) . While only 39 % of black Protestants say global warming is a result of human activity , they are , however , the least likely of the religions studied to deny global warming is occurring ( 15 % ) .
Rather , most Catholics say they look inward for guidance in their lives . Roughly three-quarters of U.S. Catholics ( 73 % ) say they rely `` a great deal '' on their own conscience when facing difficult moral problems , compared with 21 % who look to the Catholic Church 's teachings , 15 % who turn to the Bible and 11 % who say they rely a great deal on the pope .
Conservatives would rather live in small towns or rural areas than anywhere else . Our research found an overwhelming preference among the most conservative Americans for nonurban lifestyles : 41 % of consistent conservatives said they would live in a rural area if they could live anywhere in the U.S. , and 35 % picked a small town ; just 4 % said they 'd prefer a city .
Across several questions , blacks generally hold more positive views about video games . Some 19 % of blacks say that most games promote teamwork and communication , compared with 10 % of Hispanics and 8 % of whites . Blacks are also more inclined to agree that most video games help develop good problem solving and strategic thinking skills – 22 % hold this view , versus 18 % of Hispanics and 15 % of whites .
This revenue for local public radio comes from a range of streams , but individual giving ( which includes member revenue and major gifts ) and underwriting ( from businesses and foundations as well as other nonprofit organizations ) are two key sources of funding . Among the 123 news-oriented licensees studied here , individual giving and underwriting accounted for a combined $ 595.5 million in revenue in 2017 .
An overwhelming majority of black Americans see the treatment of racial and ethnic minorities as a key issue to their vote in 2016 . Fully 82 % of blacks overall say this issue is very important , and it is among the highest on this group 's 2016 agenda . Nearly three-quarters of Hispanic voters ( 72 % ) also say the treatment of racial and ethnic minorities is a very important issue to their decision in the fall . Both blacks and Hispanics are more likely than white voters to say this issue is very important to their vote , though a 56 % majority of white Americans do say the same .
The GOP 's efforts to repeal the health care law are registering widely with the public – 49 % say they have heard a lot about these efforts . Fewer ( 39 % ) say they heard a lot about John Boehner becoming the new House speaker . Only about three-in-ten say they heard a lot about Republican proposals for billions of dollars in spending cuts ( 31 % ) and members of Congress reading the Constitution on the House floor ( 28 % ) . Even fewer heard a lot about GOP plans to investigate government operations under the Obama administration ( 20 % ) , the Democrats ' proposed changes in the Senate 's filibuster rules ( 14 % ) and members of the House reducing office and staff budgets by 5 % ( 14 % ) .
Notably , among the roughly one-quarter of Republicans who say the Trump administration 's approach to Iran has raised chances of a military conflict , most ( 65 % ) say the decision to conduct the airstrike was the right one . Only about a third of Republicans ( 31 % ) who say Trump 's approach has raised the likelihood of a military conflict with Iran say it was the wrong decision . These differences extend to views of the Trump administration 's overall approach toward Iran . A majority of women ( 62 % ) say the administration 's approach to Iran has increased the likelihood of a major military conflict ; about half of men ( 47 % ) say the same .
More than a third of the public ( 35 % ) says they followed news about the latest federal deficit projections very closely and another 30 % reported following this news fairly closely . Interest in these economic stories cuts across income groups . Roughly equal proportions of high , middle and low income Americans reported following these two stories very closely .
Public views of the impact of churches and religious organizations on the country have changed little in recent years . Currently , 59 % say churches have a positive effect on the country , while 26 % say they have a negative effect .
As a result of high intermarriage rates , some of today 's Latinos have parents or grandparents of mixed heritage , with that share higher among later generations . According to the surveys , 18 % of immigrants say that they have a non-Latino parent or grandparent in their family , a share that rises to 29 % among the second generation and 65 % among the third or higher generation , according to the Pew Research Center survey of self-identified Latino adults . And for those who say they have Latino ancestry but do not identify as Latino , fully 96 % say they have some non-Latino heritage in their background .
Millennials may be less attached to institutional religion than older Americans , but generally they are no more argumentative about religion than other generations . For example , roughly two-thirds of Baby Boomers ( 67 % ) , Generation Xers ( 69 % ) and Millennials ( 68 % ) and 62 % of the Silent Generation say the best thing to do when they encounter someone who disagrees with them about religion is to try to understand the other person 's views and agree to disagree . And just 7 % of Boomers and Silents as well as 5 % of Millennials and 4 % of those in Generation X would try to change the person 's mind .
This year more Hispanics in Florida are registered as Democrats ( 513,252 ) than as Republicans ( 445,526 ) . As recently as 2006 , the reverse was true : among Latino registered voters in Florida , more were Republican ( 414,185 ) than Democratic ( 369,906 ) .3 According to the Florida Department of State Division of Elections , Latinos make up 12 % of all registered voters in Florida this year , up from 11 % in 2006 . Their move toward the Democratic Party is part of a broader realignment among the overall electorate of the state . Today , there are 657,775 more registered Democrats than registered Republicans in Florida . In 2006 , the Democrat registration advantage was smaller – just 283,856 .
Leave takers with lower incomes are far less likely than those with higher incomes to receive pay when they take time off from work for family or medical reasons . Among all who took family or medical leave in the past two years , 47 % say they received their regular pay , while 16 % say they received only partial pay and 36 % say they received no pay . But among leave takers with annual household incomes under $ 30,000 , 62 % say they received no pay , compared with 26 % of those with household incomes of at least $ 75,000 .
Viewers tend to turn to The Daily Show primarily for entertainment , rather than in-depth reporting or the latest headlines . Many prominent public figures have been guests on the show , ranging from Academy Award winners , musicians and authors to Supreme Court justices , U.S. presidents , vice presidents and first ladies . Still , the most commonly cited reason viewers watch The Daily Show is for its entertainment value . A 2010 Pew Research Center study on Americans ' news media habits found that 43 % of regular Daily Show viewers said they mainly turn to the show for entertainment , compared with 24 % who said they watch for views and opinions , 10 % for the latest headlines and just 2 % for in-depth reporting ( 20 % gave some mix or all of the reasons ) .
Prior to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa becoming a high-profile international story , a median of 29 % across the seven African nations polled feared infectious disease as the top danger . Many of these countries have high prevalence rates of HIV/AIDS and have suffered through multiple disease epidemics in the last decade . However , other problems also worry Africans . In Nigeria , where religious strife is exacerbated by the Boko Haram terrorist group , more say religious and ethnic hatred is the world 's greatest threat ( 38 % ) .
In other news , 28 % of the public followed news about the Iraq war very closely ( up slightly from 23 % last week ) . Iraq was the most closely followed story for 13 % of the public . The national media devoted 2 % of its coverage to the war .
Roughly half ( 52 % ) of the public say they very closely followed news about the massive earthquake off the northeast coast of Japan and the tsunami that followed , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted March 10 - 13 among 1,001 adults . The Japan disaster was by far the top story of the week – 46 % say this was the news they followed most closely last week ; no other story came close .
While younger adults are very likely to own smartphones regardless of income level , the Pew Research report found , among older adults smartphone ownership is more of an `` elite '' phenomenon in the United States : The devices tend to be quite prevalent at the upper end of the income distribution but much less common among those with lower income levels .
Even though many people in the nations surveyed say they want less immigration , there is considerable support for accepting both refugees who flee violence ( a median of 77 % ) and immigrants who are highly skilled ( 64 % ) . At the same time , large shares back deporting immigrants currently in the country illegally ( a median of 69 % ) . Majorities in eight of 10 European countries favor taking in refugees , with roughly eight-in-ten or more in Spain , the Netherlands , Germany , Sweden and France expressing this view . Hungarians have the lowest support for this policy , with about a third ( 32 % ) who believe refugees should be allowed into the country .
The U.S. electorate this year will be the country 's most diverse ever , and that is evident in several Super Tuesday states holding primaries or caucuses on March 1 in which blacks could have a significant impact . In five of 12 Super Tuesday states , blacks account for at least 15 % of the electorate , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of 2014 census data . Black eligible voters have the largest footprint in Georgia ( 31 % ) and Alabama ( 26 % ) , while Virginia , Tennessee and Arkansas also have sizable black electorates .
About half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) now say they would definitely or probably get a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 if it were available today ; nearly as many ( 49 % ) say they definitely or probably would not get vaccinated at this time . Intent to get a COVID-19 vaccine has fallen from 72 % in May , a 21 percentage point drop .
More than half ( 56 % ) of foreign graduates who participated in OPT between 2004 and 2016 obtained their degree from a public college or university . Four-in-ten ( 41 % ) came from private universities and colleges , of which 38 % were not-for-profit schools and 3 % were for-profit institutions . Fewer than 3 % of OPT enrollees graduated from schools not classified under the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education ( CCIHE ) .
Majorities of those of all races and ethnicities see the new coronavirus as at least a minor threat to their health . However , 46 % of black people and 39 % of Hispanics view the coronavirus as a major threat to their own health , compared with 21 % of white adults .
Amid these changes , about four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say that when a form or online profile asks about a person 's gender , it should include options other than `` man '' and `` woman '' for people who do n't identify as either , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2018 . Still , a majority ( 56 % ) says that forms should not include other gender options . Younger adults are more likely than their older counterparts to support including third gender options on forms or online profiles . Roughly half of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 53 % ) say that forms should include other gender options , compared with 43 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 37 % of those 50 to 64 and 35 % of those 65 and older .
More than half in Poland ( 58 % ) and the Czech Republic ( 54 % ) offered critical opinions of Russia . And ratings of Russia were even worse among Western European publics . Majorities in France ( 65 % ) , Germany ( 62 % ) , and Sweden ( 59 % ) expressed an unfavorable view of Russia .
For instance , Asians are particularly optimistic about the next generation 's financial prospects . Fully 94 % of Vietnamese , 85 % of Chinese , 71 % of Bangladeshis , and 67 % of Indians think today 's children will be better off than their parents . Africans and Latin Americans are also on balance optimistic , while Middle Easterners tend to be pessimistic . And in Europe and the United States , pessimism is pervasive .
Certainly , Amato is not alone in taking pride in his country , especially its culture . Italians are much more likely than their fellow Westerners to believe in their country 's cultural pre-eminence . About two-in-three Italians ( 68 % ) agree with the statement `` Our people are not perfect , but our culture is superior to others . '' By contrast , in neighboring France — a country well known for having pride in its language and culture — only 32 % say their culture is better than others . Italians are even more confident in their cultural superiority than Americans ( 55 % ) , who themselves are well known for their strong national pride .
Among people who offer an opinion of the religiosity of leading Democrats , more say that John Edwards ( 28 % ) and Barack Obama ( 24 % ) are very religious than say the same about Hillary Clinton ( 16 % ) . Yet wide majorities see all three as at least somewhat religious , and those who do view the candidates in overwhelmingly favorable terms .
The number of migrant apprehensions at the U.S.-Mexico border rose in fiscal 2019 to its highest annual level in 12 years . The 851,508 apprehensions recorded last fiscal year ( October 2018-September 2019 ) were more than double the number the year before ( 396,579 ) but still well short of the levels in the early 2000s , according to CBP , the agency tasked with enforcing immigration laws at the border . The increase in apprehensions has come as a growing number of migrants seek asylum . The demographic profile of those crossing the border has changed , too : People traveling in families , not single adults , accounted for the majority of those apprehended last year ( 56 % ) . And most of those apprehended were from the Northern Triangle countries of El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras , which have struggled with violence and a lack of economic opportunities . That represents a notable break from the 2000s and early 2010s , when Mexicans accounted for the vast majority of those apprehended .
As with other attitudes about Trump , views on whether he has done enough to distance himself from white nationalism are deeply divided by party . Democrats are more than three times as likely as Republicans to say Trump has not done enough to distance himself from white nationalist groups ( 83 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents vs. 26 % of Republicans and Republican leaners ) .
Women are more likely than men to categorize certain information as essential to see in other users ' profiles . Among online daters , 72 % of women say it was very important to them that the profiles they looked at included the type of relationship the person was looking for , compared with about half of men ( 53 % ) . Women who have online dated are also more likely than men to say it was very important to them that the profiles they looked through included a person 's religious beliefs ( 32 % vs. 18 % ) , occupation ( 27 % vs. 8 % ) or height ( 22 % vs. 8 % ) .
With high fuel prices and instability in the Middle East , Americans are increasingly concerned about the nation 's energy situation . In January , 58 % rated `` dealing with the nation 's energy problem '' a top priority , up from just 47 % a year ago and 40 % in January of 2003 . And while finding new energy and protecting the environment are often seen as conflicting goals , the public makes no such distinction . In concert with rising energy worries , Americans are becoming increasingly anxious about the environment . In January , 57 % rated `` protecting the environment '' a top priority , up from 49 % a year ago and just 39 % in 2003 .
This survey finds that about a third of Americans ( 35 % ) register low levels of trust in other people , compared with 29 % who are `` high trusters '' and 32 % who are `` medium trusters . ''
However , no such age differential appears on the question of whether Muslims in France want either to be distinct from the larger culture or to adopt its customs . Nearly eight-in-ten French Muslims ( 78 % ) say they want to adopt French customs . Those under age 35 are equally as likely to say this as are their elders . This high preference for assimilation compares with that expressed by 53 % of Muslims in Spain , 41 % in Britain and 30 % in Germany .
Many Americans say the outbreak will have no impact on their country 's international standing . The largest share of Americans ( 41 % ) expect U.S. influence in world affairs to be about the same after the coronavirus outbreak compared to beforehand . The rest are evenly split , with 29 % saying the U.S. will have more influence and less influence , respectively .
Wealth inequality is even greater than income inequality . NYU economist Edward Wolff has found that , while the highest-earning fifth of U.S. families earned 59.1 % of all income , the richest fifth held 88.9 % of all wealth .
At the same time , the public 's views varied by the level of importance they placed on the internet during this time . While 44 % of Americans who said the internet has been essential to them personally during this outbreak believed the government has a responsibility during the pandemic to ensure that all Americans have high-speed internet access , these shares were smaller among those who deemed the internet as important but not essential ( 31 % ) and those who described the internet during this time as not too or not at all important ( 25 % ) .
An overwhelming majority of registered voters who support Biden ( 87 % ) say that acknowledging the country 's historical flaws makes the U.S. stronger . Trump supporters are evenly divided : Almost half ( 47 % ) say focusing on historical flaws makes the country weaker , while 51 % say that acknowledging flaws makes the country stronger .
However , these differences are n't as stark among younger Americans : Hispanic teenagers ( ages 13 to 17 ) look a lot like their peers when it comes to religion , even though they are more likely than U.S. teens overall to identify as Catholic and say it 's necessary to believe in God to be moral , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey .
Democrats and Republicans also differ in their feelings about their own personal safety and in their recent religious attendance habits . For instance , Democrats are far less confident than Republicans in their ability to safely attend services in person : Eight-in-ten Republican congregants ( 79 % ) say that they are `` very '' or `` somewhat '' confident that they could safely attend religious services without catching or spreading the coronavirus , while 44 % of Democratic attenders agree . And among partisans who attend services regularly ( according to a 2019 survey ) , far fewer in each group say they have actually attended in-person religious services in the past month , but , again , Republicans ( 42 % ) are twice as likely as Democrats ( 19 % ) to report doing so .
Demographic patterns in the new survey , which was conducted in September and October , are similar to those in a 2015 survey by the Center . Most notably , adults with an annual household income of $ 75,000 or more are more than twice as likely as those earning less than $ 30,000 a year to say they do not make any purchases using cash in a typical week ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) . Conversely , lower-income Americans are about four times as likely as higher-income Americans to say they make all or almost all of their purchases using cash ( 29 % vs. 7 % ) .
Most of the world has greater confidence in Obama than in Putin to do the right thing in world affairs by better than two-to-one ( a median of 56 % to 23 % ) , according to a 44 nation poll by the Pew Research Center , conducted this year after the winter Olympics in Russia but before the recent conflict over responsibility for the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 , which the U.S. has blamed on pro-Russian separatists supplied with weapons by the Russian military . An earlier 21 country survey in 2012 found a similar two-to-one margin of favorability for the U.S. president . Putin has never been as well-known as Obama , nor generally as well liked . Majorities or pluralities in only six of the 44 countries surveyed say they have confidence in Putin to do the right thing in world affairs . Just 16 % of Americans say they have a great deal or some confidence in the Russian leader . And the median confidence level in seven European Union nations is 18 % . Only 20 % of Japanese see his conduct of foreign policy favorably .
Meanwhile , roughly half of users feel the political conversations they see on social media are angrier ( 49 % ) , less respectful ( 53 % ) and less civil ( 49 % ) than those in other areas of life . At the same time , a notable minority feels that the political discussions they see on social media are largely reflective of the political discussions they witness in other areas of their lives : For instance , 39 % of users feel that these interactions are no more less respectful than other political interactions they encounter . And a small share finds political debates on social media to be more civil ( 7 % ) , more informative ( 14 % ) and more focused on important policy issues ( 10 % ) than those they see elsewhere .
Public support for trade and multinational corporations and the lack of enthusiasm for protesters does not mean that people necessarily reject critics ' concerns . Majorities , in most cases strong majorities , in 34 of 44 nations thought the availability of good paying jobs had gotten worse in the last five years . And substantial majorities–82 % in France , 67 % in the United States , 63 % in Mexico–thought the gap between the rich and the poor had worsened . But , unlike trade 's critics , the public did not blame globalization for these problems . People attributed such difficulties to domestic factors .
Financial security is strongly correlated with nearly every measure of political engagement . For example , in 2014 , almost all of the most financially secure Americans ( 94 % ) said they were registered to vote , while only about half ( 54 % ) of the least financially secure were registered . And although 2014 voting records are not yet available , pre-election estimates suggest that 63 % of the most financially secure were `` likely voters '' last year , compared with just 20 % of the least financially secure .
The belief that the GOP is divided spans all groups of Republican voters . However , those who supported Donald Trump in the GOP primaries ( 61 % ) are less likely to view the party as divided than voters who backed other Republican candidates ( 76 % ) .
For instance , both Muslims and Westerners are concerned about Islamic extremism . More than two-thirds in Russia , Germany , Britain , the U.S. and France are worried about Islamic extremists in their country . Fully 77 % of Israelis also hold this view . But extremism is considered a threat in predominantly Muslim nations as well . More than seven-in-ten Palestinian and Lebanese Muslims are worried about Islamic extremists in their countries , as are most Muslims in Egypt , Pakistan , and Turkey . For Muslims , the most common concern about extremism is that it is violent , although in both Egypt and the Palestinian territories the top fear is that extremism could divide the country .
4 Growth in mobile and social media use has sparked debates about the impact of screen time on America 's youth – and others . More than half of teens ( 54 % ) believe they spend too much time on their cellphone , while 41 % say they spend too much time on social media and about one-quarter say the same about video games , a 2018 survey found . At the same time , about half or more of teens say they have cut back on the amount of time they spend on their cellphones ( 52 % ) , and similar shares say they have tried to limit their use of social media ( 57 % ) and video games ( 58 % ) . Still , teens are not the only group who struggle with balancing their use of digital technology with other aspects of their lives . Some 36 % of parents of teens say they themselves spend too much time on their cellphone , while a similar share ( 39 % ) say they at least sometimes lose focus at work because they 're checking their cellphone .
Republican-leaning independents largely prefer a smaller government providing fewer services ; 78 % favor smaller government , compared with just 17 % who favor bigger government with more services . The views of GOP leaners are nearly identical to the opinions of those who affiliate with the GOP ( 74 % prefer smaller government ) . Like Democrats , most Democratic-leaning independents prefer bigger government .
Taken together , the country 's financial crisis , and the auto industry 's troubles in particular , amounted to the largest topic of media coverage for the week of Nov. 17 - 23 . The transition plans for the new Obama administration followed , and together they accounted for more than half of the media 's attention last week .
Despite the overall approval of direct talks between the two countries , the public was skeptical about whether North Korea 's leadership is serious about addressing concerns about its nuclear program . Around half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) said North Korean leaders are not serious about addressing these concerns , while 38 % thought North Korea 's leaders are serious .
Three-quarters of Americans are concerned about the environment , but fewer say they make an effort to live out that concern all the time . Among U.S. adults , 75 % say they are particularly concerned about helping the environment as they go about their daily lives , according to a 2016 Pew Research Center survey . But only one-in-five Americans say they make an effort to live in ways that help protect the environment `` all the time . '' Those ages 65 and older are three times as likely as those ages 18 to 29 to say they make this effort all the time ( 36 % vs. 12 % ) . Overall , 32 % of U.S. adults say they are bothered a lot by people throwing away things that could be recycled . Roughly six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) who say they always try to live in ways that protect the environment say it bothers them `` a lot '' when others throw away things that could be recycled . Among those who are less focused on environmental protection , only a quarter say it bothers them a lot when others do n't recycle . People who are environmentally conscious are also twice as likely as others to say that seeing someone incorrectly putting trash in recycling bins bothers them a lot ( 42 % vs. 21 % ) .
Supporters of Donald Trump and Joe Biden are divided not just in their views of the two presidential candidates and in their broader political beliefs and values . They are also largely divided in their personal relationships : Roughly four-in-ten registered voters in both camps say that they do not have a single close friend who supports the other major party candidate , and fewer than a quarter say they have more than a few friends who do , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in July and August . Most voters instead report having a lot of friends who share their political preferences . Around six-in-ten Trump supporters ( 59 % ) say they have a lot of friends who share their support for the president 's reelection bid , while a slightly smaller share of Biden supporters ( 48 % ) say a lot of their close friends also back the former vice president in the election this fall . Nearly nine-in-ten backers of both Trump ( 89 % ) and Biden ( 87 % ) say they have at least some close friends who support their candidate for president .
A nationwide Pew Research Center survey in August found that substantial percentages of blacks see unfair treatment in many aspects of life , especially by the criminal justice system . Fully 70 % said that blacks in their community were treated less fairly than whites in dealing with the police and about as many ( 68 % ) said the same about the courts . By contrast , just 37 % of whites said blacks were treated less fairly by the police and 27 % said they received less fair treatment by the courts .
There are also gender and educational differences in these views . Nearly two-thirds of women ( 64 % ) favor stricter gun laws , compared with 55 % of men . Adults with at least a four-year college degree are more likely than those who have not completed college to support stricter laws ( 72 % vs. 55 % ) .
The presidential campaign dominated news coverage last week , with roughly half of the newshole ( 49 % ) devoted to the tight nomination contests in both political parties , according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism 's tracking of news content . Public interest in the campaign has increased but campaign news has not necessarily dominated the public 's focus to the same extent . Just over a third ( 34 % ) say the campaign is the story they followed most closely last week , up 12 points from early December ( Dec. 2 - 7 ) . But many also say the assassination of Benazir Bhutto ( 21 % ) , the tiger attack at the San Francisco zoo ( 10 % ) , and news from Iraq ( 10 % ) were the stories they followed most closely .
There is a wide ideological gap regarding whether the U.S. succeeded in Iraq among Democrats . Only 18 % of liberal Democrats say the U.S. mostly succeeded in achieving its goals , compared with 39 % of conservative and moderate Democrats . There is little difference between conservative Republicans ( 50 % ) and moderate and liberal Republicans ( 43 % ) .
In the wake of the 2016 presidential campaign , Facebook users were more likely to press the `` anger '' button than the `` love '' button in response to lawmakers ' posts on the platform . But a new Pew Research Center analysis finds that this trend has shifted in recent years , and that lawmakers received more love than anger reactions to their posts in 2019 and 2020 . In both 2017 and 2018 , Facebook posts by members of Congress received around 5 million more `` angry '' reactions than `` love '' reactions . But love reactions overtook anger in 2019 , and lawmakers have received roughly 2 million more love than anger reactions in the first seven months of 2020 .
News about an Atlanta man infected with a dangerous form of tuberculosis drew a large audience last week . The saga of the man 's illness and his travels abroad was the second most closely followed news story of the week – trailing only the situation in Iraq . Nearly a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) paid very close attention to the tuberculosis story and 23 % said it was the story they followed most closely . Public interest was fed by intense media coverage of the story . It was the most heavily covered news story of the week , comprising 12 % of the national newshole . Interest in the situation in Iraq remained high last week . Three-in-ten Americans followed events in Iraq very closely and 25 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The public continues to pay closer attention to events in Iraq than to the Iraq policy debate : 20 % followed the policy debate very closely and 7 % listed it as their top story . The news media split its Iraq coverage last week among events on the ground ( 7 % ) and the impact of the war at home ( 4 % ) , including coverage of Cindy Sheehan 's decision to put her anti-war efforts on hold , and the Iraq policy debate ( 4 % ) .
Americans ' views about the balance between online safe spaces and free speech tend to vary by gender . Men are more likely than women to say that it is more important for people to be able to speak their minds freely online ( 56 % vs. 36 % ) , while women are more inclined than men to say it is more important for people to feel welcome and safe in online spaces ( 63 % vs. 43 % ) .
When those who support background checks in general but oppose the Senate legislation ( 10 % of the public ) are asked why they do not want to see the bill pass , 20 % point to flaws in the legislation . Nearly as many cite worries about individual rights ( 17 % ) or say that it would expand government power too much ( 16 % ) . Another 17 % are critical of the legislation 's effectiveness , saying that it will not deter criminals or curb gun violence .
More broadly , Americans are keen on keeping U.S. hegemony in the face of the perceived threats from a rising China . Nearly three-quarters in the U.S. ( 72 % ) acknowledge that China plays a more important role in the world today compared with 10 years ago , and a third of Americans believe China , not the U.S. , is the world 's leading economic power . However , 88 % of Americans say that having the U.S. as the world 's leading power would be better for the world .
Women make up 25.5 % of state senate seats and 29.7 % of state house or assembly seats . Thirteen women serve in one of the top leadership posts in state senates , and an additional six are speakers of state houses . In 2019 , Nevada became the first state with a majority-women state legislature at 50.8 % . West Virginia has the smallest share , at 14.2 % . The first women to serve in a state legislature were three Republicans elected to the Colorado House of Representatives in 1984 .
The most common types of fireworks-related injuries this time last year were heat burns ( 38 % ) , followed by bruises and abrasions ( 19 % ) and cuts ( 15 % ) . And despite common stereotypes and decades of parental warnings , fewer than 4 % of fireworks-related injuries involved amputation of a body part .
Source : For 2005 data , Pew Internet & American Life Project November-December 2005 Tracking Survey , n=1,931 adult internet users , 18 and older . Margin of error is plus or minus 2 percentage points for results based on internet users . For 2001 data , Pew Internet & American Life Project March 2001 Longitudinal Callback Survey , n=862 adult internet users , 18 and older . Margin of error is plus or minus 4 percentage points for results based on internet users .
While there is broad opposition among Republicans to the Iran nuclear deal , more conservative Republican voters ( 74 % ) than moderates and liberals ( 56 % ) say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to end the agreement . Republicans also are divided in views of a presidential candidate who will compromise with Democrats . Roughly half of moderate and liberal Republican voters ( 54 % ) would be more likely to support a candidate who will compromise with Democrats , compared with just 36 % of conservative Republicans . There are more modest ideological differences over support for deporting all immigrants in the U.S. illegally and raising taxes on the wealthy . On balance , conservative Republican voters say they would be more likely to support a candidate who wants to deport immigrants here illegally ( 45 % more likely , 26 % less likely ) . Moderate and liberal Republicans are divided ( 37 % more likely , 39 % less likely ) . Somewhat more moderate and liberal Republican voters ( 39 % ) than conservative Republican voters ( 27 % ) say they would be more likely to support a candidate who wants to raise taxes on wealthy Americans .
Trump is by far the top reason for pessimism among the 56 % of Democrats who expect this year to be worse than last year . About four-in-ten Democrats ( 43 % ) say 2019 will be worse than 2018 and cite Trump as the main reason ; another 16 % cite the government shutdown , while 13 % cite political instability or the country 's political divisions .
In the aftermath of the deadly shooting at a high school in Parkland , Florida , a majority of American teens say they are very or somewhat worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their school – and most parents of teens share that concern , according to new Pew Research Center surveys of teens ages 13 to 17 and parents with children in the same age range . Overall , 57 % of teens say they are worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their school , with one-in-four saying they are very worried . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they are not too worried about this , and just 13 % say they are not at all worried . Nonwhite teens express a higher level of concern than their white peers . Roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of nonwhite teens , including 73 % of Hispanics , say they are at least somewhat worried about this , compared with 51 % of white teens .
Ideological organizations cover state government in 25 states across the country . ( Florida has the most ideological outlets , with three . ) They assign 53 reporters to statehouses , about one-third of them ( 17 ) full time and year round . The rest cover the statehouse part time ( 19 ) or during legislative sessions only ( 15 ) . Two others are college students .
Among occupations , which refer to the kind of work people do on the job , immigrants have the largest presence in farming , where unauthorized ( 22 % ) and legal immigrants ( 21 % ) accounted for more than four-in-ten workers as of 2017 . In construction jobs , unauthorized immigrants were 15 % of all workers , more than three times their share among all U.S. workers . By contrast , legal immigrants accounted for 13 % of workers in construction , similar to their share among workers overall . Compared with their share of the overall U.S. workforce , unauthorized immigrants had a larger presence in production ( 8 % ) , service ( 8 % ) and transportation and material moving ( 6 % ) . Meanwhile , the share of legal immigrants in these occupations was similar to their share among the U.S. workforce overall .
For example , among those who have heard of CNN but did not get news there , expressions of trust and distrust are roughly equal – 37 % trust and 33 % distrust . ( Fully 80 % of those who heard of it and consumed it say they trust it . ) PBS , however ( trusted by 84 % of those who got news there in the past week ) , was roughly twice as trusted as distrusted outside its core audience ( 34 % v. 16 % ) . Higher levels of distrust were common among non-consumers of news sources that attract more ideologically aligned audiences . Al Jazeera America , with its 71 % left-leaning audience , has considerably more distrust than trust among those who have heard of it but did not get political news there in the past week : 40 % to 14 % . For The Glenn Beck Program ( 87 % of its audience is right-leaning ) , the gap is even greater : 55 % of those who know it but do n't get news there distrust it , while just 12 % trust it .
But despite all these reservations , views about what occurred in Selma were another matter . By a 48 % to 21 % margin , a Harris poll in May 1965 found its respondents saying they sided more with the civil rights groups involved than with the state of Alabama . Not unexpectedly , virtually all of the black respondents sided more with the demonstrators ( 95 % ) , but the balance of opinion among whites was also clearly with them rather than with the state of Alabama ( 46 % to 21 % ) .
In a Pew Research Center survey from April , only 6 % of Americans said the economy was recovering strongly . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) said the economy was recovering , but not very strongly ; about a quarter ( 26 % ) said it was n't recovering at all . The same survey found that Americans ' financial self-assessment had barely budged since June 2009 , when the recession officially ended : 37 % rated their financial situation `` excellent '' or `` good , '' 39 % `` only fair , '' and 23 % `` poor . ''
A recent paper by two Columbia University researchers that combined multiple survey data sources finds evidence of this sort of generational imprinting . Their study identified five main generations of presidential voters , each shaped by political events during their formative years : New Deal Democrats , Eisenhower Republicans , Baby Boomers , Reagan Conservatives and Millennials . ( The researchers note , however , that their model works best among non-Hispanic whites . ) Amanda Cox of The Upshot ( The New York Times ' data blog ) has created a fascinating interactive visualization of the researchers ' model . As Fact Tank noted last year , Americans who came of age during the Truman and Eisenhower administrations , and are now in their 70s and 80s , have fairly consistently favored Republican candidates , while those who turned 18 under Bill Clinton and his two successors have almost always voted more Democratic than the nation as a whole .
A slim majority of conservative and moderate Democrats say they are concerned more about too much focus on investigations ( 55 % ) , while 43 % say their greater concern is not enough focus . The balance of opinion is roughly the reverse among liberal Democrats : 52 % say they are more concerned congressional Democrats will not focus enough on investigating the Trump administration , while 46 % say they are more concerned they will focus too much on these investigations .
While there is widespread public approval of U.S. negotiations with North Korea , nearly half of Americans ( 49 % ) say North Korea 's leadership is not serious about addressing international concerns about their country 's nuclear enrichment program . Fewer ( 38 % ) say North Korea is serious about addressing these concerns . Views of whether North Korea is serious about addressing concerns over its nuclear program are similar among Republicans and Democrats . About half in both parties ( 50 % of Republicans and 49 % of Democrats ) say they are not serious , while 36 % of Republicans and 40 % of Democrats say North Korean leaders are serious .
The new survey finds 65 % saying it was the right decision to bring charges against the Baltimore police officers involved in the Freddie Gray case , while just 16 % call it the wrong decision . Majorities of blacks ( 78 % ) and whites ( 60 % ) call it the right decision , though this view is more widely held among blacks than whites . A December 2014 survey found that 57 % of Americans said it was the wrong decision not to charge New York City police officers in the choking death of Eric Garner ; far fewer ( 22 % ) said this was the right decision . Blacks overwhelmingly said the decision was wrong , by a 90 % -2 % margin . On balance , whites also said the decision was wrong by a 47 % -28 % margin . In the same survey , 50 % of the public said the grand jury made the right decision not to charge police officer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown , compared with 37 % who called this the wrong decision . There were much wider racial differences in reactions to that outcome : 80 % of blacks said it was the wrong decision not to charge Officer Wilson in Michael Brown 's death , while just 10 % said it was the right decision . By contrast , most whites ( 64 % ) thought the grand jury made the right decision , compared with 23 % who called it the wrong decision .
While press coverage was more focused on the U.S. attorney scandal and the 15 British sailors being held in Iran this past week , Americans remained more interested in news about the current situation in Iraq . Overall , 26 % of Americans reported following news from Iraq more closely than any other topic , compared with 15 % who tracked the British sailors and 12 % who tracked the U.S. attorney scandal most closely . By comparison , both the British hostages and the U.S. attorney scandal received roughly twice as much press coverage as the situation in Iraq this past week .
Views on the overall benefits of trade largely align across the surveyed G20 nations , though the Japanese public is less convinced of a positive effect of trade on employment . Only about two-in-ten adults in Japan ( 21 % ) believe trade creates jobs , while 40 % believe trade does not have an impact on the creation of jobs . There is more certainty that trade creates jobs in the other G20 nations , with a median of 40 % across 15 surveyed countries believing that trade generates jobs . However , only about two-in-ten among people in Italy and Argentina say that trade creates jobs , compared with about half who say trade destroys jobs in those countries .
Views of what constitutes national identity also divide publics along party lines in some European countries . In the UK , 73 % of those who have a favorable opinion of the right-wing UK Independence Party ( UKIP ) say adhering to British culture is very important to being British . Just 44 % of those who have an unfavorable view of UKIP agree . In France , sharing French customs and traditions is tied to national identity for those who have a favorable view of the right-wing , populist National Front ( FN ) ( 65 % say it is very important ) . Just 39 % of those who hold an unfavorable opinion of the FN strongly link culture to being truly French .
U.S. adults ' views on the impact of immigrants on American society also differ depending on where immigrants are from . Some 47 % of U.S. adults say immigrants from Asia have had a mostly positive impact on American society , and 44 % say the same about immigrants from Europe . Meanwhile , half of Americans say the impact of immigrants from Africa has been neither positive nor negative . However , Americans are more likely to hold negative views about the impact of immigrants from Latin America and the Middle East . In the case of Latin American immigrants , 37 % of American adults say their impact on American society has been mostly negative , 35 % say their impact is neither positive nor negative , and just 26 % say their impact on American society has been positive . For immigrants from the Middle East , views are similar—39 % of U.S. adults say their impact on American society has been mostly negative , 39 % say their impact has been neither positive nor negative , and just 20 % say their impact has been mostly positive on U.S. society .
Those who believe humans and other living things have existed in their present form throughout time are closely divided over whether or not scientific and religious explanations for the origins of life can be compatible . A median of 48 % across the 17 publics with a large enough sample for analysis say they can , while a median of 45 % say the two can not be compatible . For example , among Americans who reject evolution , 48 % think scientific and religious explanations for the origins of life can be compatible , while an equal share ( 49 % ) says otherwise . There are wide differences of opinion on this question across all publics surveyed .
Social security numbers are universally considered to be the most sensitive piece of personal information , while media tastes and purchasing habits are among the least sensitive categories of data . At the same time that Americans express these broad sensitivities toward various kinds of information , they are actively engaged in negotiating the benefits and risks of sharing this data in their daily interactions with friends , family , co-workers , businesses and government . And even as they feel concerned about the possibility of misinformation circulating online , relatively few report negative experiences tied to their digital footprints .
A majority ( 57 % ) of adults say the U.S. has n't gone far enough when it comes to giving women equal rights with men . Assessments of the country 's progress vary by gender and political party . Women ( 64 % ) are more likely than men ( 49 % ) to say that the country has n't made enough progress , and Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party are more than twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say the U.S. has n't gone far enough to give women the same rights as men ( 76 % vs. 33 % ) .
Fully 72 % of Republicans say that using overwhelming force is the best way to defeat global terrorism . Among Democrats , just 27 % favor the use of overwhelming military force , while 66 % say relying too much on military force creates hatred that leads to more terrorism .
The full population picture does n't tell the whole story . If you look simply at the total percentage of online adults who say they trust a news organization for news about government and politics , several mainstream television outlets rise to the top . CNN , ABC , NBC , CBS and Fox News are all trusted by more than four-in-ten web-using U.S. adults . These high numbers , though , are intertwined with the fact that more than nine-in-ten respondents have heard of these five news sources . Trust and distrust were only asked of sources respondents had heard of , thus , the better known a source is , the more Americans in total who can voice trust or distrust of that source . A source like The Economist , on the other hand , is known by just 34 % of respondents and so could never have a trust level exceeding 34 % — even if everyone who had heard of it trusted it .
Student involvement in extracurricular activities often differs by family income . Seven-in-ten parents of school-age children say their children return home after school , while 18 % say their school-age children participate in after-school activities and 8 % say they use an after-care program , according to a fall 2015 survey of parents with children younger than 18 . About one-third of parents ( 32 % ) with annual family incomes of $ 75,000 or higher report that their children participate in after-school activities or go to an after-care program , compared with 17 % of those with incomes below $ 30,000 . For some parents – including about half ( 52 % ) of those with family incomes of less than $ 30,000 – affordable , high-quality after-school programs can be hard to find .
Nearly a year into Donald Trump 's presidency , a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say his election has led to worse race relations in the United States . Just 8 % say Trump 's election has led to better race relations , while 30 % say it has not made a difference . Shortly after Trump 's victory last year , voters had less negative expectations for how his election would affect race relations . In November 2016 , nearly half ( 46 % ) said it would lead to worse race relations , while 25 % expected his election to lead to improved race relations ( another 26 % expected little change ) .
In 2013 , a record-high 12 % of newlyweds married someone of a different race , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of census data . ( This share does not take into account the `` interethnic '' marriages between Hispanics and non-Hispanics , which we covered in an earlier report on intermarriage . ) Some racial groups are more likely to intermarry than others . Of the 3.6 million adults who got married in 2013 , 58 % of American Indians , 28 % of Asians , 19 % of blacks and 7 % of whites have a spouse whose race was different from their own .
Looking at a comprehensive analysis based on the results of many questions , we also find that criticism of political leaders is a principal driver of distrust in government . The Pew surveys found that criticism of political leaders is as important an element in the distrust equation as the view that government does a poor job in running its programs . Cynicism about political leaders and the political system is more crucial to distrust than concerns about the proper role of government , worries about its power and intrusiveness , misgivings about its priorities or resentment about taxes .
Income inequality in the U.S. is the highest of all the G7 nations , according to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . To compare income inequality across countries , the OECD uses the Gini coefficient , a commonly used measure ranging from 0 , or perfect equality , to 1 , or complete inequality . In 2017 , the U.S. had a Gini coefficient of 0.434 . In the other G7 nations , the Gini ranged from 0.326 in France to 0.392 in the UK .
For Asians , the gender pattern goes in the opposite direction : Asian women are much more likely than Asian men to marry someone of a different race . Among newlyweds in 2013 , 37 % of Asian women married someone who was not Asian , while 16 % of Asian men married outside of their race . American Indians have the highest interracial marriage rate among all single-race groups . Women are slightly more likely to `` marry out '' than men in this group : 61 % of American Indian female newlyweds married outside their race , compared with 54 % of American Indian male newlyweds .
The partisan divide in views of government aid for the poor is wider than for other groups . Fully 82 % of Democrats say the federal government does not provide enough help for poor people , compared with just 36 % of Republicans . About as many Republicans say the government does too much for the poor ( 33 % ) as say it does too little ; 27 % say the help the government provides is about right . Democrats and Republicans also differ in their attitudes about the help the government provides to wealthy people . A large majority of Democrats ( 77 % ) say the federal government provides too much help to the wealthy . As with views about government help to the poor , Republicans are divided . Nearly half of Republicans ( 46 % ) say the federal government provides too much help for wealthy people , 42 % say it provides about the right amount , while 6 % say it does not provide enough help .
Views about Erdogan are also correlated with religiosity . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Muslim Turks who pray five times a day assign the prime minister a positive rating . Among those who pray at least once a week but less than five times daily , views are essentially split ( 51 % good , 47 % bad ) . And among those who hardly ever pray or only do so during religious holidays , just 36 % say Erdogan is having good impact .
People with the most education are the most likely to say that gays and lesbians were born that way . Indeed , 58 % of Americans with a postgraduate degree say that people are born gay or lesbian , compared with just 35 % of those with a high school diploma or less .
Independents who do not lean to a party are most likely to have an unfavorable opinion of both parties ( 37 % ) . Another 22 % have favorable opinions of both parties . Just 11 % of independents who do not lean to a party view the Democratic Party favorably , while about as many ( 9 % ) have a favorable view of the GOP .
Overall , 24 % of teens who report being constantly online say they meet with their friends in person outside of school every day or almost every day . That is nearly identical to the 23 % of less-frequently online teens who say they see their friends almost daily . And when it comes to online interaction with their friends , 69 % of teens who are online constantly say they talk to their friends online every day or almost every day , compared with 52 % of teens who visit the internet less frequently .
As in the past , neither party has an edge on better managing the government ( 43 % say the Democratic Party , 40 % the Republican Party ) . More people continue to regard the Republican than the Democratic Party as `` more extreme in its positions '' ( 48 % Republican Party , 39 % Democratic Party ) .
It 's important to note that while the share of college-educated immigrants in the U.S. trails those of some other countries , the U.S. is home to the largest number of college-educated immigrants in the world . As of 2015 , the U.S. had some 14.7 million immigrants ages 25 and older with a postsecondary diploma or college degree . This is more than three times the number in Canada ( 4.4 million ) and about four times as many as the UK ( 3.4 million ) . Other countries with high numbers of college-educated immigrants include Australia ( 3.0 million ) , Germany ( 2.0 million ) and France ( 1.8 million ) .
Just 39 % approve of the job Trump has done in explaining his plans and policies , while 41 % approve of his high-level appointments , according to a Pew Research Center national survey , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults . These opinions have changed little since December . In January 2009 , just before Barack Obama 's inauguration , 70 % approved of the job he had done explaining his plans and policies for the future and 66 % said they approved of his Cabinet selections .
The nation 's Latino population has long been characterized by its rapid growth and by its wide dispersion to parts of the country that traditionally have had few Latinos . But a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data finds that the growth and dispersion of the U.S. Latino population has slowed since 2007 , when the Great Recession started , immigration from Latin America cooled and Latino fertility rates declined sharply .
As previous Pew Research Center surveys have shown , the partisan differences in views of women and leadership are wider than gender differences in these opinions . More than twice as many Democrats ( 82 % ) as Republicans ( 36 % ) say the record number of women who will serve in the 116th Congress – most of whom are Democrats – is a good thing . The gender gap is much more modest ; 65 % of women and 55 % of men say the highest-ever number of women in Congress is a good thing .
There was a wide and consistent gender gap in opinions about the relative strengths of male and female political leaders on five attributes tested in our survey , though most men and women said there is no gender difference on these traits . One of the largest gender gaps was on the ability to work out compromises : 41 % of women compared with 27 % of men said women are better at this . Women also were more likely than men to say female leaders surpass men in being honest and ethical , working to improve quality of life for Americans , standing up for their beliefs despite political pressure , and being persuasive . The survey also asked about gender differences among leaders on various policy issues , and found less-pronounced differences among male and female respondents .
But the U.S. public 's anxieties about China are not exclusively economic in nature . When asked about eight specific issues affecting the U.S.-China relationship , majorities of Americans rank all eight as at least a somewhat serious problem , with roughly six-in-ten citing the large amount of U.S. debt held by China ( 62 % ) and cyberattacks as very serious problems ( 58 % ) .
While audience data is not available for Spanish-language news radio , revenue data is available and shows relative stability . Average station revenue for Spanish-language news stations that are listed in the BIA Advisory Services database have shown an overall decline of 12 % since 2011 , to about $ 1.2 million .
French Muslims do share many opinions with their co-religionists in neighboring countries . Primary among them is concern about joblessness . More than half of French Muslims ( 52 % ) say they are very worried about unemployment among Muslims — the primary complaint of last fall 's rioters — and an additional 32 % say they are somewhat concerned . These levels are comparable to those expressed by Spanish , German and , to a slightly lesser degree , by British Muslims . ( Curiously , among French Muslims , only 48 % of those under age 35 say they are very worried about unemployment compared with 59 % of their elders . )
Survey results are mostly unaffected when the non-Web respondents are left out . There is little or no difference between the full ( Web and mail combined ) sample and Web-only sample in a majority of topics that were asked about . Only nine survey items we tested yielded a difference of 5 or more percentage points , while the other 397 ( 98 % ) of the survey items yielded a difference of 4 percentage points or less . More specifically , about two-thirds of the 406 items yielded estimates with a difference of zero or 1 point . One area where there were significant differences was survey items relating to technology . The nine out of 406 survey items that have a difference of at least 5 percentage points between the full sample and the Web sample are related to internet or technology use . There is a 13-point difference in daily internet use between the Web-only sample ( 82 % ) and of the total sample ( 69 % ) . About eight-in-ten of Americans in the Web-only sample said they had sent email or texts to friends or family the day before , compared with about seven-in-ten in the total sample . Fully 90 % in the Web-only sample own a desktop or laptop , compared with 80 % in the total sample .
Most adults are planning to watch either `` a lot '' ( 18 % ) or some ( 37 % ) of the Olympics , according to the new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 30-Feb. 2 among 1,003 adults . About one-in-four adults ( 26 % ) say they plan to watch `` very little '' and 19 % say they will not watch at all . Nearly one-in-four of those 50 and older ( 23 % ) plan to watch a lot , compared with 14 % of those younger than 50 .
About seven-in-ten adults say they think the 2020 census will be very successful ( 8 % ) or somewhat successful ( 60 % ) in accurately counting the number of people living in the U.S. , according to the Center 's new survey . An additional 31 % say the census will be not too successful ( 26 % ) or not at all successful ( 5 % ) in doing so . In an earlier Pew Research Center survey , conducted in late February and early March , 75 % said the census would be somewhat or very successful , and 24 % said it would not be .
Half of Latinos say their situation in the U.S. has worsened over the past year , up from 32 % in the weeks after Donald Trump won the 2016 presidential election and the highest level since the Great Recession .1 In addition , more say they have serious concerns about their place in American society now ( 49 % ) than in 2017 ( 41 % ) . And a majority ( 55 % ) say they are worried that they , a family member or close friend could be deported .
However , the public is more divided about whether the NATO alliance is more important to the United States or other NATO countries . A plurality of the public ( 42 % ) says NATO is about as important to the U.S. as it is to other NATO countries . About a third ( 34 % ) say the alliance is more important to other NATO countries , while just 15 % say it is more important to the U.S .
Moms who are multigenerational caregivers spend 45 more minutes a day providing adult or child care than comparable dads . This difference is driven entirely by the fact that moms – whether caring for an adult or not – spend more time on child care daily than dads . There is no significant gender difference in the amount of time moms and dads who are multigenerational caregivers engage in adult care . Multigenerational caregivers younger than age 30 spend more than three hours a day engaged in this kind of work , compared with just over two hours a day among those ages 45 to 59 . As with gender , the age differences in caregiving are driven by differences in time spent caring for children . The youngest parents – who are more likely to have younger children requiring more hands-on care – spend more than two hours a day on child care , compared with an hour among those ages 45 to 59 . Younger and older parents who provide multigenerational care spend about the same amount of time providing adult care ( about an hour a day each ) .
A study from 2014 also revealed that conservatives and liberals have different experiences seeing posts about politics on Facebook . About half of Facebook users who express consistently conservative views across a range of political values questions ( 47 % ) see posts on the site that align with their views all or most of the time , compared with only about a third ( 32 % ) of those who express consistently liberal views . However , a larger share of these consistently liberal Facebook users than of consistent conservatives have de-friended , hidden or blocked someone because of something that friend posted about politics ( 44 % , vs. 31 % ) . Both groups , however , are more likely than those with more mixed political views to report seeing like-minded views and blocking others at much higher rates . Overall , most Facebook users see a mix of views on the platform : Only about a quarter of Facebook users ( 23 % ) see views that align with their own all or most of the time .
In January 2009 , 65 % could recall the name of a person Obama had selected for a role in his administration ( a level of awareness that was driven in large party by familiarity with his pick for Secretary of State , Hillary Clinton ) . In January 2001 , fewer than half ( 43 % ) could name an appointee of George W. Bush ; and in January 1993 , just 21 % could identify a person Bill Clinton had nominated for his cabinet or other high-level post .
American opinions continue to differ considerably from those of Western Europeans when it comes to views of individualism and the role of the state . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) Americans believe it is more important for everyone to be free to pursue their life 's goals without interference from the state , while just 35 % say it is more important for the state to play an active role in society so as to guarantee that nobody is in need .
Majorities of League and Five Star supporters also say that EU membership has been bad for the Italian economy ( 68 % and 62 % , respectively ) . But the rest of the Italian public is n't so sure : 42 % say EU membership has been bad for Italy 's economy , while 50 % say it has been good .
The debates draw a lot of viewers . Although viewership of the debates as a share of the total TV audience has broadly fallen over the decades , they can still attract more people than just about any other campaign event ( or televised event of any kind that does n't rhyme with `` Looper Hole '' ) . In 2016 , the first Clinton-Trump debate drew a record 84 million viewers , according to Nielsen Media Research , and 71.6 million tuned in to the third debate . By comparison , the final nights of the parties ' 2016 conventions attracted fewer than 35 million viewers each . ( The Nielsen numbers included people watching at home on traditional TV channels ; they did n't count people who may have streamed the debates online or watched them at debate parties in bars and restaurants . ) The vice presidential debates are very much the undercard . In most years since 1976 , when the candidates for vice president first had their own debate , the running mates have been runners-up when it comes to viewership . In 2016 , for example , only 37 million people watched the vice presidential debate between then-Indiana Gov . Pence and Sen. Tim Kaine , 44 % fewer than the viewership of the lowest-rated Clinton-Trump presidential debate ( the second ) , which drew 66.5 million viewers . That was the biggest-ever drop-off between the vice presidential debate and the lowest-rated presidential debate .
Another way of looking at the data is to compare the rate of annual increase on a quarterly basis , i.e . the percent growth in population from the same quarter in the previous year . Again , the first quarter of 2007 is strikingly different from the average across the eight quarters that preceded it . On average , this population grew at a rate of 8.0 % a year in 2005 and 2006 on a quarterly basis ( Figure 3 ) . In the first quarter of 2007 , however , it continued to grow , but the annual increase on a quarterly basis was smaller—4.2 % .
When it comes to America 's status as a military superpower , a majority of adults ( 61 % ) say that U.S. policies should try to maintain the country 's position as the only military superpower , while 36 % say it would be acceptable if another country were to become as militarily powerful . A narrow majority ( 55 % ) of Democrats under age 30 say it would be acceptable if other nations became as militarily powerful as the U.S. , while Democrats ages 30 to 49 are divided on this question . Democrats 50 and older are more likely to say policies should try to keep it so the U.S. remains militarily superior than to say it would be acceptable for another country to gain similar military strength ( 57 % vs. 39 % ) . Though a majority of Republicans across age groups say that U.S. policies should try to keep it so America is the only military superpower , 38 % Republicans under 30 say it would be acceptable if another country became as military powerful as the U.S. , compared with smaller shares among older Republicans .
Fully two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Latinos say they expect their financial situation to improve over the next year , compared with 58 % of the general population who say the same . Also , two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Latinos say they expect their children to eventually enjoy a standard of living that is better than theirs is now . By contrast , just 48 % of the general public says the same .
Our polling data can be further analyzed by dividing each of the four major regions into smaller subregions . For example , in the South Atlantic region – which comprises Florida and Georgia as well as North Carolina , South Carolina , Virginia and West Virginia , four states that either recently legalized gay marriage or are likely to do so soon – respondents in 2014 are divided over same-sex marriage , with 45 % in favor and 46 % opposed .
The belief that the U.S. economic system is no more secure today than it was before the financial crisis is widely shared across demographic groups . There are partisan differences , however , with Democrats more likely than Republicans or independents to say that the system is more secure . Large majorities of Republicans ( 80 % ) and independents ( 68 % ) say the economic system is not more secure than prior to the financial crisis . Democrats are divided : 51 % say the system is more secure today while 45 % say it is not .
Public concerns about immigration often center around culture and a perceived link to terrorism . Across the 10 nations surveyed , a median of 51 % believe immigrants want to remain distinct from the broader society , while 38 % think they want to adopt the nation 's customs and way of life . A median of 57 % say immigration increases the risk of terrorism in their country , while 38 % believe it does not .
An estimated 810,000 Hispanics with origins from Spain – that is , those who are immigrants from or who trace their family ancestry to Spain – resided in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Spaniards in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics with origins from Spain . Spaniards are the ninth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2010 , the population with origins from Spain has increased 15 % , growing from 707,000 to 810,000 over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population with origins from Spain living in the U.S. grew by 41 % , from 91,000 in 2010 to 129,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
When queried about their views related to specific aspects of each group 's mission , the public gives relatively good marks to all of these actors , with military leaders ranking the highest and members of Congress the lowest . For instance , 90 % of adults believe military leaders do a good job preparing military personnel to protect the country `` all or most of the time '' or `` some of the time , '' 83 % think technology company leaders build products and services that enhance lives , and 63 % think local elected officials do a good job promoting laws that serve the public .
By more than two-to-one , Americans see more benefits than risks from greater involvement in the global economy . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) say greater involvement in the global economy is a good thing because it opens up new markets and opportunities for growth . Just 25 % say that it is bad for the country because it exposes the U.S. to risk and uncertainty . Large majorities across education and income categories – as well as most Republicans , Democrats and independents – have positive views of increased U.S. involvement in the world economy .
The public followed the debate more closely than any other story last week by a wide margin amid continuing news of major job losses and stern warnings from Obama about the severity of the crisis . Some 47 % say the stimulus debate was the story they followed most closely , while 16 % say they followed reports about rising unemployment most closely . One-in-ten say they followed stories about a California mother giving birth to octuplets most closely .
The day will be an intensely personal experience for many veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts — about half ( 47 % ) said that they served with a comrade that had been killed , according to a Pew Research Center survey of veterans conducted in 2011 . That number rises to 62 % among soldiers who were in combat .
28 % of the unique videos in this dataset were recommended multiple times over the study period . A majority of the recommended videos in this dataset were recommended just a single time . But 98,508 videos ( or 28 % of the total ) were recommended more than once over the study period , suggesting that the recommendation algorithm points viewers to a consistent set of videos with some regularity . In fact , a small number of these videos ( 134 in total ) were recommended more than 100 times .
The European debt crisis attracted little attention or coverage last week ; 3 % say this was their top story , while 12 % say they followed this news very closely . The ongoing crisis accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Republicans ( 63 % ) are more likely than Democrats ( 56 % ) to say they consider the choice of the next Supreme Court to be very important to them personally . But nearly identical shares of liberal Democrats ( 67 % ) and conservative Republicans ( 68 % ) say the choice of the next Supreme Court justice is very important to them .
Just 46 % of Americans give the WHO positive marks on its coronavirus response , though views of how well the organization has dealt with the outbreak are sharply divided along partisan lines . Whereas 62 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the organization has done at least a good job in handling the pandemic , only 28 % of Republicans and GOP leaners say the same .
Across the board , there is a universal lack of confidence among adults in the security of everyday communications channels—particularly when it comes to the use of online tools . Across six different methods of mediated communication , there is not one mode through which a majority of the American public feels `` very secure '' when sharing private information with another trusted person or organization :
Love tops the list of Americans ' reasons to marry . About nine-in-ten Americans ( 88 % ) cited love as a very important reason to get married , ahead of making a lifelong commitment ( 81 % ) and companionship ( 76 % ) , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey . Fewer said having their relationship recognized in a religious ceremony ( 30 % ) , financial stability ( 28 % ) or legal rights and benefits ( 23 % ) were very important reasons to marry .
Republican intra-party divisions are particularly sharp over funding for education , Social Security and environmental protection . A third ( 33 % ) of Republicans and GOP leaners who agree with the Tea Party favor decreasing federal education spending , compared with just 4 % of non-Tea Party Republicans . Instead , 64 % of non-Tea Party Republicans want increased education spending , as do 78 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
Among Americans overall , there is widespread agreement around which groups have too much power in today 's economy . About eight-in-ten or more adults say politicians ( 84 % ) , large corporations ( 82 % ) and wealthy people ( 82 % ) have too much power and influence . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) say health insurance companies have too much power , and majorities say the same about banks and other financial institutions ( 64 % ) and technology companies ( 61 % ) .
The share of female CEOs of Fortune 500 companies reached an all-time high of 6.4 % in 2017 , with 32 women heading major firms . But the share fell to 4.8 % in 2018 after several high-profile women left their posts , including Denise Morrison of Campbell Soup Co. and Meg Whitman of Hewlett Packard Enterprise . The late Katherine Graham , of The Washington Post Co. , was the first female CEO to make the Fortune 500 list , in 1972 . As recently as 1995 , there were no female CEOs on the Fortune 500 list .
In the Americas , majorities of Catholics in several countries said society should be accepting of homosexuality . That was the case in Canada , where almost nine-in-ten Catholics ( 87 % ) took this view , as well as in Argentina ( 80 % ) , the U.S. ( 76 % ) , Mexico ( 72 % ) and Brazil ( 71 % ) . Other countries around the world where most Catholics said society should be accepting of homosexuality included Spain ( 91 % ) , Australia ( 81 % ) , the Philippines ( 80 % ) and South Africa ( 62 % ) .
In 2012 , there were 4 million unauthorized immigrant adults living with their U.S.-born children . Among those , 3.7 million do not have protection from deportation under Obama 's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals ( DACA ) program or under the Temporary Protected Status ( TPS ) program . As the accompanying chart shows , an estimated 675,000 unauthorized immigrants without deportation protection have U.S.-born children ages 18 or older ; some of those parents also have younger children .5 The remainder , about 3 million , has only minor U.S.-born children .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in collaboration with Carnegie Endowment for International Peace last year found that 56 % of Americans said it 's `` very important '' for the U.S. to be tough with China on economic and trade issues , and 52 % said China 's emergence as a world power constituted a major threat to the United States . At the same time , 55 % of the U.S. public said building a strong relationship with China should be a top priority , and nearly two-thirds ( 65 % ) said U.S.-China relations were `` very '' or `` somewhat '' good .
Despite spending more time with their kids than they did a generation ago , about a quarter of mothers ( and half of fathers ) say they do not spend enough time with their children . Even so , about three-quarters of moms give themselves high ratings on their parenting . Working mothers are particularly likely to give themselves a thumbs up .
Overall , few assess the American response to the coronavirus outbreak positively . In no country surveyed do more than a fifth think the U.S. has done at least a somewhat good job dealing with the virus , and a median of only 15 % across the 13 countries polled consider the country 's handling of the virus to be effective . While positive assessments of the U.S. response to the coronavirus outbreak are scarce overall , in some countries , they are in the single digits : Only 6 % in South Korea , 7 % in Denmark and 9 % in Germany think the U.S. has dealt well with the virus . Spaniards hold the most positive assessments of the American response , but even there , only one-in-five think the U.S. has handled the outbreak well .
Most Americans say they think of scientists as neither politically liberal nor conservative , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Some 64 % of Americans perceive scientists as neither liberal nor conservative . Another 24 % of adults think scientists are politically liberal and 7 % say scientists are politically conservative . While the perception of scientists as politically liberal outnumbers the share saying scientists are conservative , these perceptions are roughly the same as in a 2009 Pew Research survey .
Few Hispanics report a strong sense of connectedness with other Hispanics , with only 18 % saying what happens to other Hispanics in the U.S. impacts them a lot and another 40 % saying it impacts them some . Immigrant Hispanics ( 62 % ) are as likely as those in the second generation ( 60 % ) to express a sense of linked fate with other Hispanics . This share decreases to 44 % among the third or higher generation .
The July 2011 survey found that the debt ceiling debate had `` tarnished the image of both President Obama and Speaker ( John ) Boehner , '' with about a third saying they had formed a less favorable view of the pair in the preceding weeks . When it came to the parties in Congress , 42 % said their impression of Republicans had become less favorable as a result of the negotiations , compared with 30 % who said that of the Democrats .
Among the public overall , 71 % say undocumented immigrants living in the United States mostly fill jobs citizens do not want , while just 24 % say they mostly take jobs citizens want . About three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) say undocumented immigrants are `` as honest and hard-working '' as U.S. citizens , while 67 % say they are no more likely than U.S. citizens to commit serious crimes . As with views of immigration policy priorities , partisans differ in views of undocumented immigrants . Yet majorities of both Democrats ( 79 % ) and Republicans ( 63 % ) say that those who are in the U.S. illegally mostly take jobs U.S. citizens do n't want . Majorities in both parties also say undocumented immigrants are as honest and hard-working as U.S. citizens ( 87 % of Democrats , 65 % of Republicans ) . There is a sharper divide in perceptions of criminality among undocumented immigrants . By a wide margin ( 80 % to 15 % ) , Democrats say those in the U.S. illegally are no more likely than citizens to commit serious crimes . Among Republicans , about half ( 52 % ) say undocumented immigrants are not more likely than citizens to commit serious crimes , but 42 % say they are – more than double the share of Democrats who say this . Hispanics overwhelmingly think undocumented immigrants currently living in the U.S. are as honest and hardworking as American citizens ( 86 % ) , and that they fill jobs that American citizens do not want ( 79 % ) ; and Hispanics are somewhat more likely than white and black Americans to express these views . Similarly , more Hispanics than whites think undocumented immigrants are no more likely than American citizens to commit serious crimes : Nearly three-quarters of Hispanics think this ( 74 % ) , compared with two-thirds of whites .
A similar pattern emerges when looking at annual income : 16 % of those with an annual family income less than $ 30,000 say they feel lonely all or most of the time , compared with 9 % of middle-income adults and 6 % of higher-income adults .
3 How do social media users discover news ? Facebook is an important source of website referrals for many news outlets , but the users who arrive via Facebook spend far less time and consume far fewer pages than those who arrive directly . The same is true of users arriving by search . Our analysis of comScore data found visitors who go to a news media website directly spend roughly three times as long as those who wind up there through search or Facebook , and they view roughly five times as many pages per month . This higher level of engagement from direct visitors is evident whether a site 's traffic is driven by search or social sharing and it has big implications for news organizations who are experimenting with digital subscriptions while endeavoring to build a loyal audience .
Overall , Americans generally feel their doctors and health care providers will keep their personal records safe from hackers or unauthorized users , with about eight-in-ten Americans expressing confidence that they will do so . A majority feels the same way about public health organizations , though four-in-ten say they are not at all or not too confident that these organizations will keep their records safe . And roughly half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) are at least somewhat confident in the ability of the federal government to keep their records safe .
Education is also tied to views about how the pandemic will shape America 's role in international affairs . In general , Americans who have completed higher levels of education are more likely to think the country 's global influence will recede . For example , 45 % of those with postgraduate degrees think the U.S. 's global position will decline after the pandemic , compared with just 21 % of those with a high school diploma or less .
The public gave doctors high marks on several specific aspects of trust . Around half of Americans or more said medical doctors always or usually care about their patients ' best interests ( 57 % ) , do a good job providing diagnoses and treatment recommendations ( 49 % ) and provide fair and accurate information when making recommendations ( 48 % ) . But notably smaller shares said doctors are transparent about potential conflicts of interest with industry groups ( 15 % ) and admit mistakes and take responsibility all or most of the time ( 12 % ) .
Age is another strong , independent predictor for use of Twitter and other status updating services . Internet users age 18 - 44 report rapid uptake of Twitter over the last nine months , whereas internet users ages 45 and older report slower adoption rates . For example , 37 % of internet users age 18 - 24 use Twitter or another service , up from 19 % in December 2008 .
Black adults stand out for their trust in local news organizations . One-in-three say they have a lot of trust in the information they get from local news organizations , higher than the share of whites who say the same ( 27 % ) . When it comes to national news organizations , blacks ( 23 % ) are about as likely as whites ( 20 % ) and Hispanics ( 24 % ) to express a lot of trust .
As Pakistani forces continue to battle extremist groups within the country , nearly all Pakistanis describe terrorism as a very big problem . However , they have grown markedly less concerned that extremists might take control of the country . Last year , at a time when the Pakistani military was taking action against Taliban forces in the Swat Valley within 100 miles of the nation 's capital , 69 % were very or somewhat worried about extremist groups taking control of Pakistan . Today , just 51 % express concern about an extremist takeover .
Hispanics made up 8 % of the nation 's voters , the same as in 2010 and 2006 , according to national exit polls . Measuring the demographics of voters is difficult using exit polls . Nonetheless , they can be useful when examining trends . Even as the Latino vote remained flat at 8 % , their share among eligible voters has grown from 8.6 % in 2006 to 11 % this year . ( The number of Hispanic eligible voters has reached more than 25 million today , up from 17.3 million in 2006 . ) This suggests , but does not show , that voter turnout among Latinos may not have surged this year . Indeed , some analysts say voter turnout among the general public nationwide may be equal or down from 2010 .
One telling sign of the cutbacks is membership in the Association of Opinion Journalists , the organization that represents editorial writers and columnists . In 2006 , before most newspaper downsizing took place , the AOJ had 549 members . Since then , membership has plunged 55 % , to 245 this year .
In the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , anger toward the United States remains pervasive , although the level of hatred has eased somewhat and support for the war on terrorism has inched up . Osama bin Laden , however , is viewed favorably by large percentages in Pakistan ( 65 % ) , Jordan ( 55 % ) and Morocco ( 45 % ) . Even in Turkey , where bin Laden is highly unpopular , as many as 31 % say that suicide attacks against Americans and other Westerners in Iraq are justifiable . Majorities in all four Muslim nations surveyed doubt the sincerity of the war on terrorism . Instead , most say it is an effort to control Mideast oil and to dominate the world .
Enthusiasm for trade was particularly strong in Africa , the poorest continent , where majorities in 6 of the 10 countries surveyed said trade was very good for their nations . As might be expected , international commerce was also popular among upper income people , who in Brazil , France , Mexico and the United States , were twice as likely as the poor to think trade was very beneficial . Nevertheless , for most of the world 's people , their support for trade was guarded . The public was more likely to see international commerce as somewhat good , not very good for their country in nations as disparate as Brazil , China and Great Britain .
For example , 58 % of Biden supporters say they would prefer to vote by mail in November , but Biden voters who are Black are much less likely than other Biden voters to say this – just 38 % express a preference for mail voting ( 33 % say they would prefer to vote in person on Election Day and 25 % prefer to vote early in person ) . By comparison , clear majorities of White ( 65 % ) and Hispanic ( 58 % ) Biden voters say they would prefer to vote by mail .
Eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaners ( 80 % ) now say they agree with Trump on many or all issues , up 11 percentage points from last August . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say they agree on `` all or nearly all '' policy areas , while 42 % say they agree on many , but not all issues . Though an overwhelming majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 88 % ) continue to say they have few or no areas of agreement with Trump , the share saying there are `` no or almost no '' areas of agreement has dropped from 77 % in August to 58 % today .
Around three-quarters of Americans ( 77 % ) say it is not very or not at all acceptable for social media companies to leverage users ' data to show them ads from political campaigns . A much smaller share of adults ( 22 % ) say this practice is very or somewhat acceptable , according to the September survey . Partisans agree about the unacceptability of this practice , with 78 % of Republicans and 76 % of Democrats saying it is not very or not at all acceptable .
Americans ages 65 and older are about three times as likely as adults under 30 to say they 're following the news about the candidates very closely ( 39 % vs. 12 % ) . And white adults ( 26 % ) are more likely than black and Hispanic Americans to say this ( 17 % and 16 % , respectively ) .
Although men across all age groups are more likely to aspire to be a boss or top manager , the gap between men and women is smallest among Millennials — those ages 18 to 32 in 2013 . Among this generation , 70 % of men who are not already a boss say they would like to be , compared with 61 % of women .
But while a large number of Twitter users weighed in at least some of the time on this contentious issue by linking to news about it , the majority of content was driven by a smaller segment that tweeted about immigration news much more frequently , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of tweets between Jan. 20 and Feb. 20 , 2017 . ( Data are not available for recent events , but many of the actions and views that characterized the debate during the first month of Trump 's presidency are part of the current debate as well . ) When it came to sharing links about immigration , most users included at least one link to a news organization site , as opposed to a commentary , advocacy or other kind of site , the Center 's analysis finds . About eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) of the more than 2 million users who tweeted about immigration with a link during this time period shared at least one tweet that had a link to a news organization site .
With Election Day fast approaching , Americans are feeling somewhat better this year about the national economy than they were the past two election cycles — a sentiment borne out by improvements in several key indicators . But by many other measures , their collective mood has n't really improved . Fact Tank dug through the Pew Research Center survey archives to compare public sentiment about the economy and elected leaders today with the same metrics at comparable periods before the federal elections of 2012 and 2010 . Here 's a rundown of what we learned :
We measure overall wireless connectivity in two ways . One way is by asking users if they connect through wireless cards in their laptops . Most people of all ages who own laptops now do this . The more striking difference appears in the second aspect of wireless internet use – through mobile phones . College students are much more likely than the overall cell owner population to use the internet on their mobile phones , although all young adults do this at a relatively high rate regardless of student status .
Millennials are the only generation that is more likely to own a laptop or netbook ( 70 % ) than a desktop computer ( 57 % ) . While 69 % of adults in Generation X own a desktop , a close 61 % own a laptop . While roughly six in ten adults ages 47 - 65 own a desktop , only 49 % of Younger Boomers and 43 % of Older Boomers own a laptop .
5 Most grads think college was worth it . The same Pew Research report found that majorities of graduates in all three of the largest U.S. generations — Boomers , Gen-Xers and Millennials — agree that college either has paid off or will pay off , given what they and their families invested in it . Perhaps not surprisingly , the highest-earning graduates were the most positive about their educations — 98 % of those making six figures and up said their degree had paid off , compared with 63 % of graduates earning less than $ 50,000 . Similarly , people with advanced degrees were even more likely than bachelor 's and associate 's degree holders to say their education was worth the investment — 96 % , compared with 89 % and 76 % , respectively .
Opinion about Trump 's highest profile policy proposal to date – his executive order limiting entry to the U.S. by refugees and people from seven Muslim-majority countries – is similar to his overall job approval . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) approve of this policy , while 59 % disapprove .
Majorities say Trump definitely or probably has not set a high moral standard for the presidency ( 70 % say this ) , improved the way government works ( 66 % ) , improved the country 's standing around the world ( 63 % ) and run an open and transparent administration ( 61 % ) . In addition , 56 % say Trump has definitely or probably used his office to enrich himself , or his friends and family .
With the election still close to a year away , Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say they have given at least some thought to the candidates . Currently , 86 % of Republicans say they have given a lot or some thought to the presidential candidates , compared with 75 % of Democrats and 72 % of independents .
For instance , in the first two days of the survey field period ( March 10 - 11 ) , 42 % said the new coronavirus outbreak was a major threat to the health of the U.S. population . In the final three days of the survey field period , this share had risen to 55 % .
Even though the Senate first allowed cloture to be sought on nominations in 1949 , it was n't until the 1968 nomination of Abe Fortas to be chief justice of the Supreme Court that it was actually attempted . The cloture vote failed , and Fortas was not confirmed . Over the next two decades , cloture was sought only 10 times on nominations and was actually invoked eight times , primarily for judicial positions , according to a Congressional Research Service report . But since 1992 , according to Pew Research Center tabulations of Senate data , 232 individual nominees have been subject to at least one cloture vote .
Despite some of these unique challenges facing the older adult population when it comes to technology , most seniors who become internet users make visiting the digital world a regular occurrence . Among older adults who use the internet , 71 % go online every day or almost every day , and an additional 11 % go online three to five times per week .
In the U.S. , 45 % say the country 's allies in Europe should spend more on their national defense , while 37 % say spending levels should stay about the same and only 9 % think they should be decreased . But there is a wide partisan gap on this issue , with 63 % of Republicans calling for more spending from allies , compared with just 33 % among Democrats . When asked about their own defense spending , only about one-in-three Germans ( 32 % ) want to see it increased . Roughly half say it should stay where it is , while 13 % want it cut .
As part of a survey to understand customer satisfaction among search engine users , comScore asked participants which search attributes are most important to them and how the search engines they use most often rated on each of these attributes . The survey found that while users ' overall satisfaction levels with search engines are relatively high , there are significant gaps between respondents ' most important attributes and the perceived performance of search engines in these areas . For example , 91 % of respondents rated `` Returns results that match your needs '' as either important or very important , but only 66 % reported that this statement describes their favorite engines . The biggest gap between attribute importance and the extent to which the search engines are perceived to deliver is `` Knowing that personal information will not be shared without permission . '' Fully 85 % of users rate this as an important attribute , but only 55 % believe search engines deliver .
When asked in an open-ended format to name the economic or financial problem they have been hearing the most about in the news lately , fully 72 % of Americans point to gas and oil prices . No other issue comes close . The housing and mortgage crisis is a distant second with 11 % of the public naming this as the economic issue they have been hearing the most about .
Still , a larger share of Republicans currently support decreasing ( 33 % ) rather than increasing ( 22 % ) legal immigration into the U.S. ( 39 % say it should be kept at its present level ) . Among Democrats , more than twice as many support increasing ( 40 % ) rather than decreasing ( 16 % ) legal immigration ( 39 % of Democrats also want to keep it at its present level ) .
Most women ( 71 % ) say it is more difficult to be a mother today than it was 20 or 30 years ago . But in Pew 's 1997 motherhood survey , an even greater percentage of women expressed this view ( 81 % ) .
Most people say that today 's immigrants are either about as willing to adapt ( 32 % ) or more willing to adapt ( 26 % ) to the American way of life compared with immigrants who came to the United States in the early 1900s . Fewer ( 36 % ) say today 's immigrants are less willing to adapt .
One-in-ten U.S. adults say they have taken part in an activity classified as citizen science in the past year , and 26 % say they have ever done so , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29-May 5 . Other ways people have engaged with science and scientific research over the past year include taking part in a clinical or medical research study ( 6 % ) and giving money to support medical or science research ( 13 % ) . For comparison , about two-in-ten adults ( 19 % ) and 44 % of parents with a minor-age child say they have helped a child with a science project in the past year .
About four-in-ten black Democrats want a Democratic president to push hard on policy , even if it makes it hard to get things done . Among Democrats , larger shares of black ( 41 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 42 % ) than whites ( 32 % ) want a Democratic candidate who , if elected , will push hard for Democratic policies , even if it makes it harder to get things done .
Americans and Germans have different views toward tariffs . In June 2018 , the Trump administration 's tariffs on European steel and aluminum went into effect . In response , Germany and its European Union allies placed tariffs on American goods , ranging from bourbon to motorcycles . In the U.S. , more Americans oppose than support the initial tariffs imposed on German and other EU products ( 51 % vs. 44 % ) . Germans , however , support retaliatory tariffs by a large margin : Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) support increasing tariffs on imported U.S. products in response to American tariffs on German goods .
Following the shootings at Fort Hood , the debate over health care reform was the public 's second biggest story of the week with a quarter saying they followed health care news more closely than any other story . About a third ( 35 % ) paid very close attention to news about health care reform . According to PEJ , the media devoted 8 % of national coverage to health care news .
About one-in-ten adolescents , or around 2.6 million , have experienced major depression in the past year , according to 2013 data reported by NIMH ; for 7.7 % , their depression caused severe impairment . Depression was three times as common among teen girls as teen boys ( 16.2 % versus 5.3 % ) . Among racial and ethnic groups , mixed-race teens were the most likely to report a major depressive episode in the previous year ( 13 % ) ; native American teens were least likely to report depression ( 4.5 % ) .
When it comes to the impact on their community , about half of adults ( 48 % ) say that filling out the census form will have a beneficial effect and half ( 48 % ) say it will have neither a beneficial nor a harmful one . Another 3 % say it will harm their community .
Three main election themes dominated the coverage . The end of the presidential campaign — which encompassed coverage on just two days , was the No . 1 story , accounting for 27 % of the week 's newshole . Coverage of the election results — including straight reporting and analysis — was No . 2 , filling another 21 % . And coverage of the incoming Obama administration — which began on Nov. 5 and looked forward — was right behind , also accounting for 21 % of the newshole .
Teens who have a close friend were asked to name their most common method of getting in touch with their closest friend . Texting is the number one way all teens get in touch with their closest friends . Some 58 % of teens with smartphones cite texting as the main way they communicate with their closest friend online or by phone , compared with 25 % of teens without smartphone access . On the other hand , non-smartphone-using teens are more likely than those with smartphones to keep in touch with their closest friend via social media . Some 29 % of teens without smartphone access cited social media as their most common online or phone method of communicating with a best friend , compared with 17 % for smartphone users who did so .
The number of Americans ages 16 and older who own tablet computers has grown to 35 % , and the share who have e-reading devices like Kindles and Nooks has grown to 24 % . Overall , the number of people who have a tablet or an e-book reader among those 16 and older now stands at 43 % .
Overall , 19 % of the public has a great deal of confidence that the research and development process in the U.S. will produce a safe and effective vaccine for COVID-19 , while another 45 % say they have a fair amount of confidence . About a third ( 35 % ) say they have not too much or no confidence in this process . Among those who say they would definitely or probably get a vaccine , more than eight-in-ten express either a great deal ( 30 % ) or a fair amount ( 54 % ) of confidence in the research and development process . By contrast , 55 % of those not planning to get a coronavirus vaccine say they have not too much or no confidence at all in this process .
Gun ownership spans all types of American communities , but it is particularly common in rural parts of the country . Among adults who live in rural areas , 46 % say they own a gun , compared with 28 % of adults who live in the suburbs and even fewer – 19 % – in urban areas , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
Opinions are also divided along racial and ethnic lines . The largest share of White adults ( 49 % ) say the protests have drawn too much attention from news organizations , while around a third ( 34 % ) say they 've gotten the right amount of attention and 17 % say they 've gotten too little . Black adults overwhelmingly say the protests have drawn either the right amount of attention ( 45 % ) or not enough ( 42 % ) ; just 13 % believe they have received too little attention . Majorities of Hispanic and Asian Americans also say the protests have received the right amount of attention or not enough .
Democrats now hold a 12-point lead ( 52 % to 40 % ) in leaned party identification among those with at least a college degree , up from just a four point gap seen as recently as 2010 ( 48 % to 44 % ) . Much of this advantage has come among adults with post-graduate experience ; currently , 56 % lean Democratic while just 36 % lean Republican . Among those who have received a college degree but have no post-graduate experience , the gap is much narrower : 48 % identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , while 43 % affiliate with the GOP or lean Republican . Back to top
Interestingly , the tools people use to keep up with community issues are related to whether or not they are on a first-name basis with their neighbors . As people know fewer of their neighbors by name , they become much less likely to discuss community issues face-to-face . Among those who know all of their neighbors by name , 70 % have discussed community issues with neighbors in person , compared with just 12 % of those who do not know any of their neighbors . When it comes to using the phone 33 % of those who know all of their neighbors by name called someone in the past year to discuss local events , vs. 6 % of those who do n't know the names any of their neighbors . The numbers for email are 23 % vs. 7 % .
Support for the Pakistani government 's military campaign against extremist groups has waned in recent years . Just 37 % support using the Pakistani army to fight extremists in the country 's Federally Administered Tribal Areas ( FATA ) and the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region ( formerly the North-West Frontier Province ) . This level is significantly lower than it was two years ago , when , in a survey taken following conflict between government forces and Taliban-affiliated groups in the Swat Valley area , 53 % endorsed using the army to battle these organizations .
People 's sense that there generally is a conflict between religion and science seems to have less to do with their own religious beliefs than it does with their perceptions of other people 's beliefs . Less than one-third of Americans polled in the new survey ( 30 % ) say their personal religious beliefs conflict with science , while fully two-thirds ( 68 % ) say there is no conflict between their own beliefs and science .
In the new survey , 7 % of registered voters say they do n't favor or lean toward Obama or Romney at this point . Neither candidate is particularly appealing to these undecided voters : More hold an unfavorable opinion of Romney than a favorable opinion by a 57 % to 18 % margin . And only about a third ( 31 % ) of undecided voters view Obama favorably .
The roughly 19.8 million naturalized citizens in 2015 made up about 44 % of the U.S. foreign-born population . Another roughly 11.9 million immigrants were lawful permanent residents , among whom an estimated 9.3 million were eligible to apply for U.S. citizenship . Mexican immigrants are the largest group of lawful immigrants : About 2.5 million Mexican immigrants held U.S. citizenship and another 3.5 million were eligible to naturalize . Mexican immigrants have long had among the lowest U.S. naturalization rates ( 42 % ) of any origin group . As of 2015 , the naturalization rate among eligible immigrants from Mexico was similar to those from Honduras ( 43 % ) and Guatemala ( 44 % ) .
Among social media users as a whole , the ability to read comments by public figures such as politicians , celebrities or athletes does not come into play as a major factor—fully three quarters of users say that this plays no role whatsoever in their decision to use these sites . And while connecting with public figures has a relatively modest impact on users across a range of groups , both African Americans and Latinos show more interest in this activity than white users . One in ten black social media users ( 10 % ) and 11 % of Latinos say that reading comments from public figures is a major reason for using these sites ( compared with just 3 % of white users ) . Black and Latino social media users are also more likely to say that this is a minor factor ( 31 % of blacks and 26 % of Latinos say this , compared with 16 % of whites ) .
Amid this tension between personal privacy and public safety , 52 % of Americans surveyed in early April say it is at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location of those who have tested positive for the virus to understand how the virus is spreading , but a similar share ( 48 % ) believes this is very or somewhat unacceptable to do . At the same time , 45 % of the public says it is acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people who may have had contact with someone who tested positive for COVID-19 , while a somewhat larger share ( 54 % ) describes this type of tracking as unacceptable . Republicans and Democrats tend to hold contrasting views about the appropriateness of tracking people 's movements during the pandemic . While 61 % of Democrats say it is very or somewhat acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people who have tested positive for the coronavirus in order to understand how the virus may be spreading , that share falls to fewer than half among Republicans ( 45 % ) . Independents ' views fall in between these two groups . Overall , Hispanic Americans are more accepting of these measures than black or white people . For example , 55 % of Hispanic adults say it is at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use cellphones to track the location of people to make sure they are limiting social contact during the outbreak , compared with 45 % of black adults and just 31 % of whites . There are similar patterns by race and ethnicity when asked about location tracking for those who have tested positive for the virus or who may have been in contact with someone who was infected . Age is also a factor . Americans ages 30 and older are more likely than those ages 18 t0 29 to say it is acceptable for the government to track the location of people through their cellphone to ensure they are complying with experts ' advice on limiting social contact ( 39 % vs. 28 % ) or to track the location of people who may have had contact with someone who tested positive ( 47 % vs. 38 % ) .
About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Americans say that there should not be additional scrutiny of Muslims living in the U.S. solely based on their religion as a part of the federal government 's efforts to prevent terrorism . About a third ( 32 % ) say Muslims should be subject to greater scrutiny than people in other religious groups . There are wide partisan and ideological divisions on this question . Republicans are roughly evenly divided ( 49 % greater scrutiny , 44 % no additional scrutiny ) , while clear majorities of independents ( 62 % ) and Democrats ( 76 % ) say U.S. Muslims should not be subject to greater scrutiny because of their religion .
Among self-identified Hispanics , connections with ancestral national origins decline as immigrant roots become more distant . Eight-in-ten immigrants ( 82 % ) who identify as Hispanics say they feel very or somewhat connected with their country of origin . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) second-generation Hispanics – the children of at least one immigrant parent – say the same . However , by the third generation , only 44 % feel very or somewhat connected to their family 's country of origin .
Most Democrats think the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of global climate change , while opinions among Republicans are divided by ideology , generation and gender . Overall , two-thirds of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to address climate change , including 90 % of Democrats and 39 % of Republicans . But Republicans differ widely in their views on this issue by ideology . About two-thirds of moderate or liberal Republicans ( 65 % ) say the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of climate change , compared with roughly one-quarter of conservative Republicans ( 24 % ) .
With the presidential contest shifting toward the fight between Mitt Romney and Barack Obama , news about the 2012 campaign topped coverage last week , making up 22 % of the newshole . Still , as prosecutors launched the legal case against Zimmerman , coverage of developments in the Trayvon Martin case was up sharply from one week earlier . Last week , the Trayvon Martin story accounted for 17 % of coverage , up from 7 % one week earlier , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Nearly all international migrants who were born in Mexico live in the U.S. ( 97 % ) , the highest share among the six countries , followed by El Salvador ( 89 % ) and Guatemala ( 88 % ) . By comparison , only around a quarter ( 28 % ) of international migrants born in Colombia live in the U.S. ; a plurality ( 49 % ) live elsewhere in the Latin America and Caribbean region .
The political typology sorts people into cohesive groups based on their values , political beliefs and partisan affiliation . Among the eight major typology groups , Staunch Conservatives – who are strongly anti-government and pro-business – are the only one in which a majority ( 67 % ) says that the U.S. stands above all other nations .
Fewer Mexicans are migrating to the U.S. today than in the past . In fact , more Mexicans left than came to the U.S since the end of the Great Recession . Between 2009 and 2014 , 870,000 Mexican nationals left Mexico to come to the U.S. , down from the 2.9 million who left Mexico for the U.S. between 1995 and 2000 . Of those moving back to Mexico , many cite family as the reason for their return . About 1 million Mexican immigrants and their U.S.-born children moved from the U.S. to Mexico between 2009 and 2014 , and 61 % said they had done so to reunite with family or to start a family , according to the 2014 Mexican National Survey of Demographic Dynamics .
Work-family balance is a challenge for many working fathers . Just like mothers , many of today 's fathers find it challenging to balance work and family life . About half of working dads ( 52 % ) said in 2015 that it is very or somewhat difficult to do so , a slightly smaller share than the 60 % of working mothers who said the same . And about three-in-ten working dads ( 29 % ) said they `` always feel rushed , '' as did 37 % of working mothers .
What 's behind these changes ? On the one hand , the demographics of the state 's Hispanic population are growing more diverse . In 2014 , Cubans made up a smaller share ( 31 % ) of Hispanic eligible voters – adult U.S. citizens – in Florida than they did in 1990 ( 46 % ) . Meanwhile , over the same period , Puerto Ricans made up a larger share of the state 's Hispanic eligible voters , rising from 25 % to 27 % . These changes have been driven by the outmigration of Puerto Ricans from the island to central Florida and the movement of Puerto Rican-origin Hispanics in the northeast U.S. to central Florida . The share of Hispanic eligible voters of other ancestry ( such as Mexico and South America ) has also increased , from 29 % then to 42 % today .
The UN has a positive international image . Across 32 surveyed countries , a median of 61 % have a positive view of the UN , while a median of just 26 % have a negative view . In three of the countries surveyed , eight-in-ten or more view the institution favorably : the Philippines ( 86 % ) , South Korea ( 82 % ) and Sweden ( 80 % ) .
Muslims in Lebanon are also less likely to identify primarily with their religion , rather than with their country , with equal numbers saying they think of themselves first as Muslim ( 30 % ) and saying they identify primarily as Lebanese ( 30 % ) . Elsewhere , majorities or pluralities of Muslims identify more strongly with Islam than with their nationality — in many cases by lopsided proportions . Even in Turkey — a country with a long-running tradition of secularism — Muslim identifiers outnumber those who identify primarily as Turks by 13 percentage points . Moreover , Lebanese Muslims are less concerned about the global role of Islam — just under half ( 47 % ) say it is very important for Islam to play a more important and influential role on the world stage . In contrast , 84 % of Muslims in Morocco and 73 % in Jordan would like to see Islam play a major role . Only Turkish Muslims , at 43 % , show less interest in Islam 's global influence .
Voters offer highly positive evaluations of election workers – especially those in their local communities – following the midterm elections . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) say that poll workers in their community and officials who ran elections in their local area did their jobs very well . More than nine-in-ten say they did their jobs at least somewhat well .
Asian American eligible voters are dispersed throughout the country , but more than half live in only three states . California alone holds 35 % of the U.S. Asian electorate ( 3.6 million ) . The state with the second-most Asian American eligible voters is New York ( 920,000 ) , followed by Texas ( 698,000 ) . Meanwhile , only in Hawaii do Asian Americans account for a larger share of eligible voters than any racial or ethnic group . They make up 38 % of the state 's eligible voters , by far the highest share in the country . California has the next highest share with 14 % .
Drought tops the list of climate change concerns . We read respondents a list of four potential effects of global warming , and asked which one concerns them the most : droughts or water shortages ; severe weather , such as floods or intense storms ; long periods of unusually hot weather ; or rising sea levels . In 31 nations , drought is a top worry . Fully half of Americans name drought as their chief climate change concern , and this is especially true in drought-plagued Western states compared with other regions of the country .
Fully 63 % say that `` the challenges faced by some U.S. soldiers returning from Iraq '' have received too little news coverage ; about the same number ( 61 % ) say that reports about soldiers ' personal experiences have been undercovered . A majority ( 52 % ) also says that efforts to improve conditions in Iraq are getting too little coverage .
The most potent driver of all these trends has been the near doubling of the Latino share of suburban school district enrollment—to 20 % in 2006 - 07 , from 11 % in 1993 - 94 . Over this same time period , the black share grew to 15 % from 12 % and the Asian share rose slightly , to 6 % from 5 % . Overall , white students made up just 59 % of the enrollment in suburban public schools in 2006 - 07 , down from 72 % in 1993 - 94 .
House Speaker Paul Ryan 's announcement Wednesday that he would not seek re-election adds a big name to what was already shaping up to be a near-record year of seat turnovers in the U.S. House of Representatives . More House members are choosing not to run for re-election to that body than at any time in the past quarter-century – including a record number of Republicans , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . As of April 11 , 55 representatives ( 38 Republicans and 17 Democrats ) have announced they 're not running for new terms , according to our count . In addition , one Republican ( Blake Farenthold of Texas ) and one Democrat ( John Conyers of Michigan ) have resigned . That makes a total of 57 voluntary departures , or 13 % of the House 's full voting membership .
But , recent gains notwithstanding , the median income of middle-class households in 2016 was about the same as in 2000 , a reflection of the lingering effects of the Great Recession and an earlier recession in 2001 . The median income of lower-income households in 2016 ( $ 25,624 ) was less than in 2000 ( $ 26,923 ) . Only the incomes of upper-income households increased from 2000 to 2016 , from $ 183,680 to $ 187,872 .
Today , about three-quarters of Republicans ( 77 % ) are more concerned that the military action wo n't go far enough ( 20 % say their bigger concern is that the U.S. will go too far ) . By contrast , 64 % of Democrats say the bigger worry is that the U.S. will go too far in getting involved and 30 % are more concerned about not going far enough . Independents are split , with 47 % expressing each concern .
Other white Christians also are fairly confident about the president 's handling of the outbreak – though they are not as united in their support as white evangelicals are . About six-in-ten white Catholics ( 59 % ) and white Protestants who are not evangelical ( 62 % ) are at least somewhat confident that Trump is doing a good job , although only about half in each group say Trump has assessed the risks of the outbreak correctly . Roughly four-in-ten in these groups say he has n't taken the risks seriously enough .
While overall ratings for China among people around the world are mostly positive , that is not the case on the issue of individual liberty . A global median of 45 % say the Chinese government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people , while only 34 % say that it does . Citizens in the European Union and North America are most likely to hold this negative view . In Asia , publics are very divided on this issue , as are those in the Middle East . People in Africa are the most positive about China 's human rights record .
Across all age groups , about half or more say increasing diversity makes the country a better place to live . However , 15 % of those 65 and older say growing ethnic diversity makes the U.S. a worse place to live , the highest among age groups . About eight-in-ten adults with postgraduate degrees ( 81 % ) say growing diversity makes the country a better place to live . Smaller , though sizable , majorities of college graduates ( 70 % ) and those with some college experience ( 61 % ) say the same . Among those with a high school degree or less education , attitudes are divided : While 45 % say growing diversity makes the country a better place , 42 % say it does n't make much difference and 11 % say it makes the country worse .
A contested convention , for those who 've never experienced one ( which is to say , everyone under the age of 35 or 40 ) , occurs when no candidate has amassed the majority of delegate votes needed to win his or her party 's nomination in advance of the convention . A candidate still might gather the delegates needed by the time balloting begins , in which case the nomination is settled on the first ballot . But should the first ballot not produce a nominee , most delegates become free to vote for whomever they wish , leading potentially to multiple ballots , horse-trading , smoke-filled rooms , favorite sons , dark horses and other colorful elements that have enlivened American political journalism , literature and
Overall , 72 % of U.S. adults say social media companies have too much power and influence in politics today , according to the June 16 - 22 survey . Far fewer Americans believe the amount of political power these companies hold is about the right amount ( 21 % ) or not enough ( 6 % ) . Majorities of both Republicans and Democrats believe social media companies wield too much power , but Republicans are particularly likely to express this view . Roughly eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 82 % ) think these companies have too much power and influence in politics , compared with 63 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Democrats , on the other hand , are more likely than Republicans to say these companies have about the right amount of power and influence in politics ( 28 % vs. 13 % ) . Small shares in both parties believe these companies do not have enough power .
And when it comes to the global economy , those who say the economy in their country is doing poorly or are concerned about the future of their economy are more likely to see the condition of the global economy as a major threat .
Views of Chinese President Xi Jinping are , on balance , negative across the 34 countries surveyed . A median of 45 % say they lack confidence in him when it comes to world affairs , compared with a median of 29 % who say they trust him to do the right thing . But opinions vary widely across regions . In the U.S. , Canada and Western Europe , half or more in almost all countries say they have no confidence in Xi , whereas confidence is much higher in all three sub-Saharan African countries surveyed and tends to be higher in several of the Middle East and North African countries surveyed . In the six Asia-Pacific countries surveyed , most have little confidence in Xi Jinping when it comes to world affairs . Just 29 % have confidence in him to do what is right , which falls far short of the ratings for Japan 's Shinzo or India 's Narendra Modi . And in the Philippines , Indonesia , India and South Korea , nearly equal numbers have confidence in North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as in Xi .
Overall , 35 % of adult Millennials ( Americans born between 1981 and 1996 ) are religiously unaffiliated . Far more Millennials say they have no religious affiliation compared with those who identify as evangelical Protestants ( 21 % ) , Catholics ( 16 % ) or mainline Protestants ( 11 % ) . Although older generations also have grown somewhat more religiously unaffiliated in recent years , Millennials remain far more likely to identify as religious `` nones . '' The 35 % of Millennials who do not identify with a religion is double the share of unaffiliated Baby Boomers ( 17 % ) and more than three times the share of members of the Silent generation ( 11 % ) .
At this point in the race four years ago , Rudy Giuliani was far better known ; 45 % could name the former New York City mayor unprompted . Even more could name the two leading Democratic candidates at the time , Hillary Clinton ( 78 % ) and Barack Obama ( 62 % ) .
The cost of not going to college has risen . Millennials with just a high school diploma are faring worse today than their counterparts in earlier generations by almost every economic measure examined .
There are other challenges . For example , 28 % of adults have used a smartphone as part of their employment search , and half of those have filled out a job application using a smartphone . But mobile job seekers often encounter difficulties like accessing and reading content , as well as trouble submitting files and documents .
Roughly half or more of Millennials in six of the seven European Union nations surveyed by the Pew Research Center last year believe that `` success in life is pretty much determined by forces outside our control . '' This includes 63 % of young Germans and Italians and 62 % of young Greeks and Poles . ( Brits were the exception , with only 37 % of those ages 18 to 33 agreeing with that statement . ) By contrast , slightly more than four-in-ten young Americans ( 43 % ) share this view .
In Europe , those who have favorable opinions of right-wing populist parties are more likely than those with unfavorable views to say division has grown since the coronavirus outbreak began . This is especially true in Germany , where thousands have gathered to protest coronavirus restrictions in recent weeks , including some protestors affiliated with the far right . Fully 75 % of Germans with a favorable opinion of the right-wing Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party say Germany is now more divided than before the coronavirus outbreak , compared with 51 % of those with an unfavorable view of AfD .
As Mexico prepares to host the fifth round of negotiations over the 23-year-old North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) , most Americans ( 56 % ) say that the pact is good for the United States , while just a third ( 33 % ) say it is bad . More than half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents have a negative view of NAFTA : 54 % say the agreement is bad for the U.S. , compared with 35 % who say it is good . Democratic views are highly positive : 72 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say NAFTA is good for the U.S. , while just 18 % think it is bad for the country . Views of NAFTA are more positive than negative across most demographic groups . Assessments are especially positive among those with a postgraduate degree ( 70 % good for U.S. ) and adults ages 18 to 29 ( 69 % ) .
A substantial share of adults in Central and Eastern Europe hold traditional views of the role of women and the family , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of 18 nations in the region . This is especially true in the 10 countries surveyed with Orthodox Christian majorities . For instance , majorities of respondents in all 10 of these Orthodox countries agree with the statement , `` Women have a responsibility to society to bear children , '' including at least three-quarters in Armenia ( 82 % ) , Romania ( 81 % ) and Bulgaria ( 77 % ) and about six-in-ten in Russia and Belarus ( 59 % each ) . Generally , smaller shares in the eight Catholic-majority , religiously mixed or majority-unaffiliated countries surveyed ( Bosnia and Hungary are exceptions ) take this position .
Consistent with the view that a vaccine may be approved before its safety and effectiveness are fully understood , Americans overwhelmingly say their greater concern is that the approval process will move too fast , rather than too slowly . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) say their greater concern is that the vaccine approval process will move too fast , without fully establishing that it is safe and effective . Just 20 % say they are more concerned the approval process will move too slowly , causing unnecessary delays in access to a vaccine . While Republicans and Democrats have differed over many aspects of the coronavirus outbreak – including the threat it presents to public health and how quickly to lift restrictions on public activity – majorities of both groups say their greater concern about the vaccine approval process is that it will move too fast , rather than too slowly . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 69 % ) are more concerned about the approval process moving too fast , and an even larger majority of Democrats ( 86 % ) share this view .
Over the past two years , Pence 's ratings have become more divided along partisan lines . Currently , 71 % of Republican voters give Pence a warm rating , including 59 % who have very warm feelings toward him ( ratings of 76 to 100 ) . In March 2018 , 65 % viewed Pence warmly , with 50 % saying they had very warm feelings .
Democrats lead on several issues ; GOP leads on economy . With the public 's views of the economy becoming more positive , the Republican Party holds a 45 % -36 % lead on dealing with the economy . Last October , the two parties were rated about even for handling the economy ( 38 % Republican Party , 41 % Democratic Party ) . The GOP once again has a significant lead on handling terrorism ( 43 % to 32 % ) ; neither party had an advantage on terrorism in October .
Other goals are also clearly important . Many say political stability is a crucial priority , and even more prioritize economic prosperity . When respondents are asked which is more important , a good democracy or a strong economy , Turkey and Lebanon are the only countries where more than half choose democracy . Egyptians are divided , while most Tunisians , Pakistanis and Jordanians prioritize the economy .
Trump 's positive ratings for dealing with the coronavirus have fallen since the early weeks of the outbreak in March . Currently , 37 % say he is doing an excellent or good job in responding to the coronavirus outbreak , while 63 % say he is doing only a fair or poor job .
While Pakistanis express serious concerns about the U.S. , they also have deep worries about their neighbor and longtime rival India . Indeed , they are more worried about the external threat from India than extremist groups within Pakistan . When asked which is the greatest threat to their country – India , the Taliban or al Qaeda – slightly more than half of Pakistanis ( 53 % ) choose India , compared with 23 % for the Taliban and just 3 % for al Qaeda .
In 2014 , the most recent year for which data are available , 44.1 % of black public elementary and secondary school students attended schools where at least half of their peers were also black . Among Hispanics , 56.7 % went to schools where at least half of students were also Hispanic .
In other news last week , the public continued to pay close attention to the Iraq war in spite of limited press coverage . Nearly three-in-ten Americans ( 28 % ) followed news about the war very closely and 17 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . One-in-five ( 21 % ) paid very close attention to the Iraq policy debate , 7 % listed this as their most closely followed story .
In other news this week , interest in the economy remained high , in spite of relatively little coverage . Fully 37 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely , down slightly from 40 % earlier this month . And 15 % listed conditions in the U.S. economy as the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . The national news media devoted 6 % of its overall coverage to the economy .
Democratic voters are ideologically divided over going after big banks . For the most part , Democrats are less ideologically divided than Republicans in their views of possible candidate positions . But among possible Democratic primary voters who are liberal , 60 % say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to reduce the size of large banks and financial institutions ; just 38 % of moderate and conservative Democratic voters say the same . Liberal Democratic voters also are far more likely than conservatives or moderates to express a positive view of a candidate who backs the Iran nuclear deal ( 53 % vs. 31 % ) . But comparable percentages of liberals ( 44 % ) and conservatives and moderates ( 45 % ) say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to expand trade agreements . Hillary Clinton recently announced she does not support the Trans-Pacific Partnership , a trade pact negotiated by the Obama administration with a dozen Pacific nations . Clinton 's main rival , Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont , also opposes the TPP .
Even so , today there is greater partisan antipathy on the right than the left . In the current survey , we asked those who had a very unfavorable opinion of the opposing party : Would you say that party 's policies `` are so misguided that they threaten the nation 's well-being , or would n't you go that far ? '' Among Democrats , 27 % go so far as to say the GOP is a threat to the well-being of the country . A higher percentage of Republicans ( 36 % ) say Democratic policies threaten the nation . The disparity is much larger when ideology is factored in . Among consistently conservative Republicans , 66 % regard Democratic policies as a threat to the nation 's well-being . Substantially fewer ( 50 % ) of consistently liberal Democrats think Republican policies represent a threat to the nation .
In the first four months of Murdoch 's stewardship , the Journal ‘ s front page has clearly shifted focus , de-emphasizing business coverage that was the paper 's franchise , while placing much more emphasis on domestic politics and devoting more attention to international issues . But it is not , at least not yet , as broad as the New York Times on the same days . Under the Murdoch regime , the single biggest change in front-page coverage occurred with politics and the presidential campaign . From Dec. 13 , 2007 through March 13 , 2008 , coverage more than tripled , jumping to 18 % of the newshole compared with 5 % in the four months before the ownership change .
Younger Americans are more likely than their older counterparts to believe that organics are better for one 's health than conventionally grown produce . Some 54 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 47 % of those 30 to 49 say organic foods are better for one 's health . By comparison , 39 % of those ages 65 and older believe organic foods are better for one 's health than conventionally grown foods .
With near unanimity , the Japanese public takes a dim view of North Korea – 97 % have a negative opinion of their communist neighbor across the Sea of Japan . In China , however , about half of the public ( 51 % ) has a positive view of North Korea and just 31 % have an unfavorable view . The Japanese also feel much more threatened by Kim Jong Il 's regime than do the Chinese – 46 % of Japanese consider the North Korean government a great danger to stability in Asia and world peace , compared with only 11 % in China .5South Korea also receives more favorable marks in China than in Japan . Fully 64 % of Chinese have a favorable view of South Korea , while only 18 % have a negative view . Meanwhile , most ( 56 % ) Japanese also have a positive view of South Korea , but a significant minority ( 43 % ) sees the country negatively .
Overall , just 19 % of Indians express a positive view of Pakistan . And when asked which poses the greatest threat to India – Pakistan , China , the Lashkar-e-Taiba extremist group or Naxalite insurgents – a 47 % -plurality chooses Pakistan .
Republican men are particularly resistant to the idea of boys playing with toys and participating in activities that are typically associated with girls . About six-in-ten Republican men ( 61 % ) say it 's a bad thing for parents to encourage young boys to do this , while just 38 % say this is a good thing . In contrast , a majority of Republican women ( 58 % ) see this as a good approach for raising boys .
Mobile phone users say their devices help them stay in touch with those who live far away . In every country surveyed , about nine-in-ten or more say their phones have helped them in this regard . At the same time , a median of 53 % of adults across the 11 countries surveyed say the increasing use of mobile phones has had a good influence on family cohesion , compared with a median of 20 % who say it has had a bad influence . People are similarly positive about the impact of the internet on family cohesion . Even so , a notable share of adults express concerns about the impact of mobile phones on interpersonal communication . For instance , a median of 48 % of adults say people should be very concerned about people losing the ability to communicate face-to-face when using their mobile phones . And in focus groups conducted as part of the study , some participants highlighted examples of their children texting from the room next door rather than talking to their family .
In looking at how successful Internet users have been in finding the information they need online , the following chart shows how Internet users fare when they go online to satisfy information needs . Most of the time searchers in these categories find what they want—more than 70 % in all categories . For news , 41 % of online news hounds say they always find what they want on the Net .
Overall interest in the news has implications for how news media landscapes develop alongside technological change . Large majorities around the world say they follow national and local news closely ( global medians of 86 % and 78 % respectively ) . In all 38 countries , more than two-thirds say this of news about their own country . The same is true of news about their city or town in 32 countries .
Among Republican voters , conservatives are more likely than moderates and liberals to have strongly positive reactions to a Trump victory . While 44 % of conservative Republicans say they would be excited by Trump winning reelection , just 22 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say the same .
Data from the past 50 years reveal the upward yet uneven trajectory of black political leadership in America . In 1965 , there were no blacks in the U.S. Senate , nor were there any black governors . And only six members of the House of Representatives were black . As of 2019 , there is greater representation in some areas – 52 House members are black , putting the share of black House members ( 12 % ) on par with the share of blacks in the U.S. population overall for the first time in history . But in other areas , there has been little change ( there are three black senators and no black governors ) . The current 116th Congress includes 52 black representatives , a record high and a large increase since 1965 . ( Rep. Adriano Espaillat , a New York Democrat and the first Dominican American elected to Congress , self-identifies as a Latino of African descent . The `` Biographical Directory of the United States Congress , '' on which this analysis is based , does not count Espaillat among the black members of Congress . ) Only one of these 52 representatives – Will Hurd of Texas – is a Republican . Two nonvoting delegates , representing the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands , are black . Only six representatives were black in 1965 , and all were Democrats .
Across 34 countries surveyed , a median of 65 % of adults said they felt generally pessimistic about reducing the gap between the rich and the poor in their country . Many also held doubts about the way their political system works ( median of 54 % ) and the availability of well-paying jobs in their country ( 53 % ) . When it comes to their country 's education system , however , more people expressed optimism than pessimism ( 53 % vs. 41 % ) .
In Sweden , those with a favorable view of the Sweden Democrats – a party that has opposed increased multiculturalism and especially immigration – are 42 percentage points more likely than nonsupporters to have an unfavorable opinion of Muslims . A similar gap exists between Germans who support AfD and those who do not ( 41 points ) .
Before Pope Francis ' encyclical on the environment was published in June , U.S. Catholics ' views of climate change mirrored those of Americans overall – including major partisan divisions . While six-in-ten Catholic Democrats say global warming is caused by humans and that it is a very serious problem , only about a quarter of Catholic Republicans feel the same way .
There is relatively broad consensus on the remaining elements of the scenario . Substantial shares of Americans think David experiences online harassment when he begins to receive unkind messages from strangers ( 72 % ) , when those messages become vulgar ( 82 % ) , when his personal information is posted online ( 85 % ) , and when he starts to receive threatening messages ( 85 % ) .
Of the 55 representatives who 've chosen not to seek re-election to the House this November , 20 are running for other offices instead – 11 for U.S. Senate and nine for governor of their state . ( One representative , Maryland Democrat John Delaney , says he 'll run for president in 2020 , but that 's a long way off so for now we 're counting him as a straight retirement . ) The 35 retirements so far this year are the most since 1996 , when the same number of House members left without seeking another office .
For several weeks there have been concerns about possible ventilator shortages in hospitals with COVID-19 patients , and concerns that medical providers might need to make decisions on how to allocate ventilators if that occurred . Among the public , half ( 50 % ) say that , if a shortage occurs , the priority for critical care should be given to patients most in need at the moment , while nearly as many ( 45 % ) say the priority should be to patients who doctors think are most likely to recover with treatment . A majority ( 58 % ) of adults under age 30 say the priority in the case of limits on access to ventilators should be `` patients who doctors think are most likely to recover with treatment , which may mean more people survive but that some patients do n't receive treatments because they are older or sicker . '' By comparison , nearly six-in-ten adults ages 50 and older ( 57 % ) say the priority should be `` patients who are most in need at the moment , which may mean fewer people overall survive , but doctors do not deny treatments based on age or health status . '' There are also substantial differences in these views by religious affiliation . Roughly six-in-ten evangelical Protestants ( 60 % ) and those affiliated with historically black Protestant denominations ( 59 % ) say that the priority should be given to patients based on their need in the moment . Opinion leans in the same direction among Catholics ( 53 % say give priority to those most in need vs. 42 % who say give priority to those most likely to recover ) . Mainline Protestants are divided about evenly on this question , while most religiously unaffiliated respondents say patients who are most likely to recover with treatment should be given priority if ventilators are scarce ( 56 % ) .
A 58 % majority of Americans say police around the country do an excellent or good job of protecting people from crime , which is little changed from the share who said this four years ago ( 62 % ) . However , there have been double-digit declines in the shares who say police forces do an excellent or good job of using the right amount of force for each situation ( from 45 % in 2016 to 35 % today ) , treating racial and ethnic groups equally ( 47 % to 34 % ) and holding officers accountable when misconduct occurs ( 44 % to 31 % ) .
Roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) African Americans self-identify as Christian , as do seven-in-ten whites and 77 % of Latinos , according to Pew Research Center 's 2014 Religious Landscape Study . Most black Christians and about half of all African Americans ( 53 % ) are associated with historically black Protestant churches , according to the study . Smaller shares of African Americans identify with evangelical Protestantism ( 14 % ) , Catholicism ( 5 % ) , mainline Protestantism ( 4 % ) and Islam ( 2 % ) .
Median household wealth among Hispanics fell from $ 18,359 in 2005 to $ 6,325 in 2009 . The percentage drop—66 % —was the largest among all racial and ethnic groups , according to a new report by the Pew Research Center 's Social & Demographic Trends project . During the same period , median household wealth declined 53 % among black households and 16 % among white households .
Overall , 72 % of college graduates support this proposal , compared with 60 % of those with some college and 50 % of those with no more than a high school education . Within both parties , well-educated people are more likely to support setting limits on carbon dioxide emissions than are those with less education . Among Republicans , 50 % of college graduates favor setting emissions limits for carbon dioxide compared with 37 % of those who have not completed college . The educational differences are even larger among Democrats ( 91 % of college graduates vs. 62 % of non-college graduates ) . More women ( 63 % ) than men ( 55 % ) support placing a limit on carbon dioxide emissions . There are regional differences in opinions on this issue : Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of those living in the West support capping carbon emissions compared with 58 % in the Midwest and 53 % in the South . The difference is larger when regions are combined ; 64 % of those living in the Northeast or the West support limiting carbon emissions , compared with 56 % of people living in the Midwest or the South .
As is the case with a number of ideals and principles related to democracy in the U.S. , a majority of Americans ( 61 % ) say it is very important that the tone of debate among political leaders is respectful . Yet as with most other ideals , few say this is actually happening . Just 25 % say the following statement – `` The tone of debate among political leaders is respectful '' – describes the country very ( 6 % ) or somewhat well ( 19 % ) . Of the 16 aspects of the political system and democracy asked about in the survey , this rating is among the lowest .
Overall , 36 % say lowering taxes for large businesses and corporations would help the economy , while an identical share ( 36 % ) say it would hurt the economy ; 25 % do n't think it would make much difference . Views on how these cuts would impact the fairness of the tax system tilt more negative : 44 % say lowering taxes for large businesses and corporations would make the tax system less fair , compared with 25 % who say it would make the system more fair and 27 % who do n't think it would make much difference .
Today , 86 % of Hispanic parents and 79 % of black parents with children under 18 say it is either extremely or very important that their children earn a college degree . By comparison , about two-thirds ( 67 % ) of white parents say the same .
A 25-nation Pew Global Attitudes survey conducted in May-June of this year highlighted the extent of Obama 's popularity , especially among many of America 's traditional allies in Western Europe . A remarkable 93 % of Germans said they had confidence in Obama to do the right thing in world affairs , as did 91 % in France and 86 % in Britain . This was a dramatic shift from 2008 , when only 14 % of Germans , 13 % of the French , and 16 % of the British had expressed confidence in then President George W. Bush . But Europeans were n't alone — more than 80 % in Canada , Japan and South Korea expressed confidence in Obama . Majorities in Brazil , Argentina and Mexico , where Bush had been overwhelmingly unpopular , also gave Obama positive marks . And even in countries where Bush had been relatively popular , such as India and Nigeria , Obama 's ratings were higher .
Even though Japanese voters say they will back the LDP in the upcoming election , they reject amending the constitution . A majority ( 56 % ) opposes Japan officially having a military and the ability to declare war . But that opposition has declined by 11 percentage points since 2006 , when 67 % were against constitutional revision . Such findings may be one reason why Abe advisers say that , whatever the outcome of the July 21 vote , they may forego any effort to formally amend the constitution . Instead , they may simply interpret Article 9 more broadly , to enable Tokyo to play a larger military role in the world .
There is a strong relationship between age and television news habits . Younger adults are less likely than older adults to often get news via all three TV platforms . For example , just 8 % of those ages 18 to 29 often get news from network TV , compared with 49 % of those 65 and older . Education and income also play a role in local and network TV news consumption habits . For instance , among adults who have completed college , 26 % often get news from local TV and 21 % from network TV – much less than those with no more than a high school degree ( 47 % and 31 % , respectively ) . News use on cable varies little by education or income , however .
Looking over the past decade , from 2003 through 2012 , the overall ad pages for news magazines ( excluding Newsweek ) dropped by 36 % , from 7,848 to 5,008 . But within that time frame were several shifts in trajectory . A major drop-off in ad pages occurred from 2008 to 2009 ( 17 % . ) Ad pages stabilized from 2009 to 2011 , growing at a modest 1 % . But then another downturn occurred as ad pages in 2012 dropped 13 % from the previous year , followed by the 18 % decline in the first half of 2013 .
People in Turkey think that their country should garner more respect around the world than it currently does . In all , 54 % of Turks say they deserve more respect compared with the 36 % who think Turkey is as respected as it should be .
Trump voters place low importance on the issue of climate change , but there are some differences in voter priorities by ideology , gender and generation . Two-in-ten moderate or liberal Trump supporters say climate change is very important to their 2020 vote , compared with just 6 % of those who describe their views as conservative . Among Trump supporters , women as well as Millennials and Gen Zers are somewhat more likely than men and older supporters to say the issue of climate change is important to their vote this fall . Still , across all major demographic groups , no more than two-in-ten Trump voters place high importance on the issue .
Algorithm-driven social media platforms can produce feelings of anger in their users – and most Americans are skeptical that the content they see on social media reflects reality . Nearly all the content an individual user might see on social media is chosen by computer programs attempting to deliver content that they might find relevant or engaging . When asked about emotions they experience from the content they see on social media , the largest share of users ( 44 % ) say they frequently feel amused – but 25 % say they frequently feel angry as a result of what they see on social media . More broadly , a majority of Americans ( 74 % ) think the content people post on social media does not provide an accurate picture of how society feels about important issues .
When polled over the summer , in every European country surveyed , people who said the EU did well in its response to the pandemic were much more likely to have a positive view of the EU than those who thought the EU did a poor job dealing with COVID-19 . Perceptions of the economy at the time of the survey – as well as optimism about the economic future – also colored views of the bloc . Those who thought their domestic economy was in good shape and those who expected their country 's economy to improve were both more likely to have favorable views of the EU and to approve of its handling of COVID-19 than people who thought the economy was in bad shape or expected the economy to worsen .
Publics around the world overwhelmingly agree that the news media should be unbiased in their coverage of political issues , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of 38 countries . Yet , when asked how their news media are doing on reporting different political issues fairly , people are far more mixed in their sentiments , with many saying their media do not deliver . And , in many countries , there are sharp political differences in views of the media – with the largest gap among Americans .
Trump and Biden supporters have deep disagreements over several other aspects of the election and voting process – including whether it will be clear which candidate won even after all the votes are counted . About three-quarters of registered voters who support Biden ( 76 % ) are confident that the country will know the winner of the presidential election after all the votes are counted , including 30 % who are very confident .
Nearly three-quarters of white adults who report that they regularly attend religious services ( 72 % ) say they are `` very '' or `` somewhat '' confident they could safely attend in-person services right now at their regular house of worship without spreading or catching the coronavirus . By contrast , around half of Black ( 49 % ) and Hispanic ( 51 % ) Americans who are similarly observant express such confidence . The other half of Black and Hispanic attenders say they are `` not too '' or `` not at all '' confident they could safely go to in-person religious services right now without spreading or catching the virus , according to the survey , which was conducted July 13 to 19 .
More than four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 43 % ) say the Trump administration has helped evangelical Christians , though a similar share ( 44 % ) say the administration has had no effect on this group . Just 11 % of Americans say the Trump administration has hurt evangelical Christians .
Two-thirds of Americans favor marijuana legalization , reflecting a steady increase in public support , according to a September 2019 Pew Research Center survey . Public opinion on marijuana legalization was essentially the opposite nearly two decades ago : In 2000 , 63 % said the use of marijuana should be illegal . Views of marijuana legalization differ by generation and political party , though support has increased across demographic groups over time . Majorities of Millennials ( those born between 1981 and 1997 ) , Gen Xers ( born between 1965 and 1980 ) and Baby Boomers ( born between 1946 and 1964 ) say the use of marijuana should be legal , up sharply from a decade ago . And while a smaller share of the Silent Generation ( born between 1928 and 1945 ) currently favors legalization , support among these Americans has also increased . Few Americans say marijuana should be illegal under all circumstances . In the fall 2019 survey , 59 % of U.S. adults said marijuana should be legal for recreational and medical purposes , while another 32 % said it should be legal for medical use only . Just 8 % said the drug should not be legal .
The total number of individual members – defined as anyone who has given money to one of the stations owned by these 123 licensees in each calendar year – in 2017 was 2.3 million , about a 10 % increase over the previous year .
Likewise , 28 % of Asians say that what happens to other Asians in the U.S. affects what happens in their own life a lot . Due to sample limitations , the views of Asians could n't be analyzed separately by categories such as gender , age or education . ( For more information , see `` A note about the Asian sample . '' ) When it comes to a sense of linked fate across groups , no more than 20 % of any one racial or ethnic group feels that what happens to any other group impacts them a lot , although more substantial shares say what happens to other groups affects their own lives some . For example , more than four-in-ten white ( 43 % ) , Hispanic ( 46 % ) and Asian ( 49 % ) adults say what happens to black people affects them at least some .
Adults under 30 were also less likely than people in older age groups to say it was very important to pay all the taxes you owe , serve on a jury if called and participate in the census every decade . Relatively few adults under 30 said it was very important to know the Pledge of Allegiance ( 38 % ) or display the American flag ( 19 % ) .
The desire for enhanced prestige on the world stage coexists with a persistent strain of ethnic nationalism . Roughly half ( 53 % ) of Russians say their homeland should be for Russians , while 44 % think it is natural for Russia to have an empire .
Teens are often much more enthusiastic authors and readers of blogs than their adult counterparts . Teen bloggers , led by older girls , are a major part of this tech-savvy cohort . Teen bloggers are more fervent internet users than non-bloggers and have more experience with almost every online activity in the survey . Read more in Amanda Lenhart and Mary Madden 's 2005 report , Teen Content Creators and Consumers .
When asked how accurately they feel the list represents them and their interests , 59 % of Facebook users say the list very ( 13 % ) or somewhat ( 46 % ) accurately reflects their interests . Meanwhile , 27 % of Facebook users say the list not very ( 22 % ) or not at all accurately ( 5 % ) represents them .
Similarly , 86 % of those who expressed confidence in election systems across the country in October say they are confident these systems were secure . Among the 54 % who were not confident in national election systems before the midterm elections , about half ( 51 % ) now say they are confident that election systems in the United States were secure from hacking and other technological threats , while 49 % continue to express little confidence in election security around the country .
Though abortion is a divisive issue , more than half of U.S. adults take a non-absolutist position , saying that in most – but not all – cases , abortion should be legal ( 34 % ) or illegal ( 26 % ) . Fewer take the position that in all cases abortion should be either legal ( 27 % ) or illegal ( 12 % ) .
People 's views about contact tracing and related issues like privacy and data security could have a critical impact on the success of contact tracing programs and the trajectory of the pandemic . Public health modeling of the spread of COVID-19 has shown that successful contact tracing can depress the number of infections dramatically if those who are infected are quarantined and contacts and places visited are identified . As public health officials and organizations work to combat misinformation about contact tracing , they also must try to communicate effectively with the public about its goals and purpose . The July survey found that while the majority of Americans said they had heard about this process as of the survey 's fielding , another share , though a minority , said they had not heard much or anything . Overall , 70 % of Americans had seen or heard at least some about contact tracing as of mid-July , with 29 % having heard a great deal about the process . At the same time , 29 % reported hearing nothing at all or not too much about this process . Majorities across groups had at least some awareness of contact tracing at the time , but not all Americans had seen or heard equal amounts about the process . About four-in-ten Black adults ( 39 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 43 % ) said they had not heard much or anything at all about contact tracing at the time , while roughly three-in-ten Asian American adults ( 31 % ) and about a quarter of White adults ( 24 % ) said the same .4 Younger Americans and women were also more likely to have less awareness about contact tracing . Some 40 % of 18- to 29-year-olds said they had heard not too much or nothing at all as of the survey 's fielding , compared with 29 % of 30- to 49-year-olds , 26 % of 50- to 64-year-olds and 24 % of those 65 and older . Roughly three-in-ten men ( 27 % ) and women ( 31 % ) reported having not seen or heard much , if anything , about this process .
Immigration , however , may be the issue on which Italy is most distinctive . Like much of Western Europe , over the last few years Italy has wrestled with how to successfully integrate and assimilate its Muslim minority . Additionally , the recent influx of Romanian immigrants — especially Roma , or gypsies from Romania — into Italy has led to new controversies over immigration . The 2007 Pew poll included a number of questions on immigration , and on each of these , Italians held the most negative opinions of any Western public.Nearly two-thirds of Italians ( 64 % ) believe immigration is a very big problem for their country . In no other Western nation did a majority rate immigration a very big problem ( Spain was the closest at 42 % ) . In fact , Italy 's level of concern was the highest , not only among Western countries , but among all 47 nations included in the survey . Similarly , roughly three-in-four Italians ( 73 % ) say immigrants are having a bad effect on their country , considerably more than any other Western public , and second only to South Africa ( 75 % ) among the 47 nations in the study .
Moreover , social media users can be turned off by what happens on social media . For instance , social media sites are frequently cited as places where people are harassed . Near the end of the 2016 election campaign , 37 % of social media users said they were worn out by the political content they encountered , and large shares said social media interactions with those opposed to their views were stressful and frustrating . Large shares also said that social media interactions related to politics were less respectful , less conclusive , less civil and less informative than offline interactions .
The hierarchy of issues that voters rate as most important has changed little over the past few election cycles . About eight-in-ten registered voters ( 83 % ) say the economy will be very important in their voting decisions while about seven-in-ten view health care ( 73 % ) and terrorism ( 71 % ) as very important .
Americans are more likely than their German counterparts to say other countries do too little in global affairs . Roughly two-thirds of Americans say China ( 66 % ) and Russia ( 65 % ) do too little to help solve global problems . About half say the same about the United Nations , and 45 % of Americans hold this view about the European Union . However , Americans are split on whether Germany is doing too little ( 39 % ) or the right amount ( 40 % ) . Germans , on the other hand , have more mixed views . While pluralities in Germany say the UN , Russia and China are doing too little , 46 % say the EU is doing enough . And nearly half say that NATO is doing the right amount to help solve the world 's problems , roughly the same share of Americans ( 48 % ) who say the Atlantic defense organization is not doing enough . Germans are divided on whether the U.S. is doing too little ( 39 % ) or too much ( 39 % ) to help solve global problems .
The survey finds that most Republicans and Republican leaners favor Trump listening more to members of the party with experience in government . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say Trump should listen more to Republicans who have experience working in government , while 34 % say he should listen less . However , conservative Republicans ( 52 % ) are less likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 70 % ) to say Trump needs to listen more to members of the GOP with experience in government .
Among blacks , just 32 % said the country had made a lot of progress since the 1960s and about eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) said a lot more work needs to be done . Whites have a sunnier outlook : About half ( 48 % ) said a lot of progress had been made and , compared with blacks , a smaller share ( 44 % ) said a lot more needs to be done .
Six-in-ten black adults ( 62 % ) say it is important for houses of worship to address `` political topics such as immigration and race relations '' – including 23 % who say covering these topics is `` essential . '' By contrast , 36 % of white Americans say it is important for sermons to deal with these topics , and only 8 % say it is essential . Four-in-ten white Americans ( 42 % ) say these themes should not be discussed in sermons . Hispanics are more divided on this issue than black or white Americans are ; about half ( 53 % ) say it is important for sermons to cover political issues .
For more than a decade , overwhelming majorities of Americans have said that it is more important for the president to focus on domestic policy than foreign policy . Today , about seven-in-ten say it is more important for President Donald Trump to focus on domestic policy right now ( 69 % ) , little different than the share saying this shortly before he took office or the shares who wanted Barack Obama to focus on domestic policy in the years prior .
About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Hispanic eligible voters live in just six states in 2017 – California ( 7.7 million ) , Texas ( 5.4 million ) , Florida ( 3.0 million ) , New York ( 2.0 million ) , Arizona ( 1.1 million ) and Illinois ( 1.0 million ) . Hispanics make up the highest share of all eligible voters in New Mexico ( 42.6 % ) , followed by California ( 30.0 % ) , Texas ( 29.8 % ) , Arizona ( 23.4 % ) and Florida ( 19.8 % ) .
It 's not that young people are n't looking forward to the Winter Olympics , too : 53 % are looking forward to the Sochi Games , which is roughly the same share as other ages . But they stand out for their anticipation of this year 's World Cup in Brazil in June and July , with the U.S. poised to face an exceptionally tough opening group of opponents . Four-in-ten adults ages 18 - 29 ( 40 % ) are looking forward to the World Cup , compared with just 13 % of adults 50 and older .
Asked about their impressions of coverage of the budget deficit and national debt , fully 73 % say that deficit news seems to be the same all the time with nothing ever really changing . Another 55 % say they often feel they do not have enough background information to follow budget news stories . About half ( 49 % ) say that news about the deficit issue depresses them .
Women are more likely than men to cite protection – rather than recreation – as the only reason they own a gun . Male and female gun owners are about equally likely to cite protection as a reason why they own guns : About nine-in-ten in each group say this is a reason , and 65 % and 71 % , respectively , say it is a major reason . But far larger shares of women than men who own guns say protection is the only reason they own a gun : About a quarter of women who own guns ( 27 % ) are in this category , compared with just 8 % of men .
Europeans have experienced a variety of economic challenges in recent years , and the financial anxiety felt by many is clearly reflected in the survey 's findings . A remarkable number of Europeans believe the financial situation for average people in their country has not improved over the past two decades . In Greece , Italy and Spain – three southern European nations hit hard by the financial crisis – large majorities say average people are worse off than they were 20 years ago . And roughly half or more share this view in France and the UK . Two notable exceptions are Poland and Sweden , where about two-in-three believe people are generally better off financially .
Large majorities of teens say that preventing people with mental illnesses from purchasing guns and improving mental health screening and treatment – 86 % each – would be at least somewhat effective at preventing school shootings . Roughly eight-in-ten teens ( 79 % ) say that having metal detectors in schools would be effective and 66 % say the same about banning assault-style weapons . By contrast , a much smaller share of teens ( 39 % ) say that allowing teachers and school officials to carry guns in schools would be very or somewhat effective at preventing school shootings . Teens ' views on proposals to prevent school shootings generally mirror those of the general public , with the strongest support for mental health-related policies and relatively lower support for banning assault-style weapons or allowing school personnel to carry guns . ( The survey did not ask about the effectiveness of having sworn law enforcement officers armed in schools . )
For instance , more than half of Hispanic cell internet users ( 53 % ) face slow download times at least weekly or more often , compared with 44 % of white cell internet users who report this problem . Some 41 % of black and 39 % of Hispanic cell owners reported dropping calls at least weekly , compared with 30 % of white cell owners .
Despite the general belief that trade is good for the economy , there is substantial skepticism regarding its impact on jobs , wages and prices . About half ( a median of 49 % ) say trade creates jobs , roughly one-in-three ( 34 % ) believe it increases wages , and only about one-in-four ( 27 % ) think it decreases prices .
Voters find the debates useful , but not determinative . Post-election surveys conducted by Pew Research Center since 1988 have found that , in most cases , three-fifths or more of voters say the debates were very or somewhat helpful in deciding which candidate to vote for . The high point was 1992 , when 70 % of voters said the three three-way debates that year between Bill Clinton , George H.W . Bush and Ross Perot were at least somewhat helpful . However , that does n't necessarily mean that large numbers of voters are waiting for the debates to make up their minds . In 2016 , for example , only 10 % of voters said they had definitively made up their minds `` during or just after '' the presidential debates . By comparison , 11 % said they 'd made up their minds in the days or weeks on or just before Election Day , 22 % during or just after the party conventions , and 42 % before the conventions .
A similar pattern exists with regard to whether Americans perceive a lot of discrimination against Muslims . Those who are most familiar with Islam are significantly more likely than those with minimal exposure to say that there is a lot of discrimination against Muslims today . Seven-in-ten say this , compared with just 44 % of those with a low level of familiarity . As on the question of Islam and violence , a large portion ( 25 % ) of those with minimal knowledge of Islam say they do not know whether there is a lot of discrimination against Muslims today .
As of this month , 56 % of all Americans say they are following Trump 's statements either very closely ( 22 % ) or fairly closely ( 35 % ) . But that is down considerably from the 70 % in June who were following Trump either very closely ( 29 % ) or fairly closely ( 41 % ) .
More broadly , a majority of Americans ( 58 % ) say there should be limits on the number of jobs that businesses can replace with machines , even if those machines are better and cheaper . Fewer respondents ( 41 % ) took the opposite view that businesses are justified in replacing human workers , even if machines can do the work better and at a lower cost . The public is more divided on the question of who bears responsibility for taking care of displaced workers in the event of widespread automation . Half say it is the government 's obligation , even if it means raising taxes substantially . Nearly the same share ( 49 % ) says it 's the obligation of individuals , even if machines have already taken many human jobs .
While support for offshore drilling has largely rebounded , many Americans also support investments in alternative energy . By a two-to-one ratio , a greater share of the public favors developing alternatives like wind , solar and hydrogen over expanding ventures into oil , coal and natural gas ( 60 % vs. 30 % ) . In fact , the public takes something of an all-of-the-above approach to energy : 81 % support better fuel-efficiency requirements and 58 % want more mining and drilling on federal land . An additional 41 % would favor the government promoting the increased use of nuclear power .
A new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted July 24 - 27 among 1,005 adults , finds that compared with three months ago , the public is more likely to believe that the events in Russia and Ukraine are important to U.S. interests . About a week after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine , 48 % say events in the region are very important to the United States , up 17 points from April ( 31 % ) .
Younger adults remain much more critical of Trump 's performance than older adults . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 disapprove of how Trump is handling his job . The oldest adults ( ages 65 and older ) are as likely to say they approve ( 48 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) of Trump . Disapproval of Trump has edged higher among all age groups since earlier this year . While Trump 's overall approval has slipped several points from where it stood in March , most Americans ' views of the president have remained relatively stable over the past three months . Looking at the same group of adults who were surveyed in both March and June , 17 % of those who approved of Trump in March now disapprove of him ( representing 8 % of the public overall ) . They are somewhat different demographically from those who approved of the president 's performance in March and continue to do so ; 81 % of those who approved in March also do so today . Compared with those who continue to approve of Trump , those who previously approved and now disapprove are younger , have lower family incomes and are more likely to live in places hardest hit by the coronavirus outbreak .
South Africans appear to recognize the competing economic influence of the two world powers – and to welcome ties with both countries . According to a new Pew Research Center poll , about seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say the U.S. has a great deal or fair amount of influence on economic conditions in South Africa ; 71 % say the same about China . Among those who believe the U.S. and China have a significant economic impact on their country , majorities say both nations ' influence is a good thing for South Africa : 67 % for the U.S. and 58 % for China .
In general , the public rejects by a wide margin the idea of holding U.S. Muslims to increased scrutiny because of their religion . About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) say Muslims living in the United States should not be subject to additional scrutiny solely because of their religion ; 32 % say Muslims should be subject to more scrutiny than people in other religious groups .
Americans and Germans have quite different opinions about whether the current relationship between the two countries is good or bad . Almost seven-in-ten Americans ( 68 % ) say relations between the U.S. and Germany are good , while only 22 % say they are bad . Meanwhile , a majority of Germans ( 56 % ) say that relations with the U.S. are at least somewhat bad , with only 42 % saying they are positive .
A median of 58 % around the world hold a negative opinion about Putin . His strongest critics are in Spain ( 92 % no confidence ) , Poland ( 87 % ) , France ( 85 % ) and Ukraine ( 84 % ) . Three-quarters or more in Western Europe and North America are also critical of Putin , as are majorities in the Middle East .
By contrast , the response to Sarah Palin 's comments about the shootings and their aftermath proved more mixed : 44 % of those who heard at least a little about Palin 's comments say their reaction was very ( 14 % ) or mostly ( 30 % ) positive , while 41 % say their reaction was very ( 20 % ) or mostly ( 21 % ) negative . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they had heard at least a little about Palin 's comments , which were released on Jan. 12 . Among those who had heard about the speech by the former Alaska governor , the partisan divide in reaction is wide . Seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) say their reaction was very ( 26 % ) or mostly positive ( 45 % ) , compared with just 25 % of Democrats ( 8 % very positive , 17 % mostly positive ) . Independents largely mirror the public as a whole ; 42 % say their reaction was very ( 10 % ) or mostly positive ( 32 % ) , while 39 % say it was very ( 17 % ) or mostly negative ( 22 % ) .
Older Republicans express higher levels of confidence than younger Republicans about the future of their party . About nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) of those ages 65 and older say they are optimistic , while just 65 % of those younger than 50 say the same .
This survey shows that three-quarters think it is acceptable for public health officials to make personal information that may be collected during the coronavirus outbreak available for use by infectious disease researchers , while smaller shares say the same about pharmaceutical companies ( 40 % ) , health insurance companies ( 40 % ) and state and local elected officials ( 37 % ) .
Young adults generally are more focused than their elders when it comes to online privacy . Younger adults are more likely to know that personal information about them is available online and to have experienced privacy problems . By the same token , our surveys have found that those ages 18 to 29 are more likely than older adults to say they have paid attention to privacy issues , tried to protect their privacy and reported some kind of harm because of privacy problems . They are more likely to have limited the amount of personal information available about them online , changed privacy settings , deleted unwanted comments on social media , removed their name from photos in which they were tagged , and taken steps to mask their identities while online . It is also true that younger adults are more likely to have shared personal information online .
After more than a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan , the public does not think the United States has achieved its goals in either country . About half of Americans ( 52 % ) say the U.S. has mostly failed to achieve its goals in Afghanistan while 38 % say it has mostly succeeded . Opinions about the U.S. war in Iraq are virtually the same : 52 % say the United States has mostly failed in reaching its goals there , while 37 % say it has mostly succeeded .
The American public is evenly divided on whether the increased number of deportations of undocumented immigrants in recent years is a good thing or a bad thing ( 45 % each ) , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults . About half of whites ( 49 % ) view the growing number of deportations positively . But Hispanics have a different view . By 60 % to 35 % , Hispanics view the increase negatively , according to the survey .
Some language and tactics are viewed as clearly over the line : A sizable majority ( 81 % ) says it is never acceptable for a politician to deliberately mislead people about their opponent 's record . There is much less agreement about the acceptability of elected officials using insults like `` evil '' or `` anti-American . ''
About eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) Republicans say too many people are easily offended , while just 21 % say people should be more careful to avoid offending others . Among Democrats , 61 % think people should be more careful not to offend others , compared with 37 % who say people these days are too easily offended .
In the midst of an ongoing debate over the power of digital technology companies and the way they do business , sizable shares of Americans believe these companies privilege the views of certain groups over others . Some 43 % of Americans think major technology firms support the views of liberals over conservatives , while 33 % believe these companies support the views of men over women , a new Pew Research Center survey finds . In addition , 72 % of the public thinks it likely that social media platforms actively censor political views that those companies find objectionable . The belief that technology companies are politically biased and/or engaged in suppression of political speech is especially widespread among Republicans . Fully 85 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents think it likely that social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints , with 54 % saying this is very likely . And a majority of Republicans ( 64 % ) think major technology companies as a whole support the views of liberals over conservatives .
Concerns Over Closing Guantanamo . Obama has long sought the closure of the U.S. prison holding terrorist suspects at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba . More Americans think closing the prison in the next few years is a bad idea ( 49 % ) than say it is a good idea ( 42 % ) . Republicans overwhelmingly say that closing the prison is a bad idea ( 80 % ) , while 64 % of Democrats think it 's a good idea .
Across 10 European nations recently surveyed by Pew Research Center , a median of 74 % say the EU promotes peace , and most also think it promotes democratic values and prosperity . However , Europeans also tend to describe Brussels as inefficient and intrusive , and in particular they believe the EU is out of touch – a median of 62 % say it does not understand the needs of its citizens .
In general , younger people tend have more negative views of the typical American than do older adults . Millennials , who are highly critical of members of their own generation , are especially likely to see the typical American as lazy : 63 % say that term applies at least fairly well , compared with no more than about half in older age cohorts .
The public expresses far more confidence in President Obama than it does in congressional leaders of both parties when it comes to the debate over the debt ceiling . Nonetheless , only about half of Americans ( 48 % ) have even a fair amount of confidence in Obama to do the right thing when it comes to dealing with the debt ceiling , while nearly as many ( 49 % ) say they have not too much confidence or no confidence at all in the president on this issue . Just 33 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in Boehner to do the right thing in dealing with the debt ceiling , while 30 % say the same about McConnell and 26 % have at least a fair amount of confidence in Cantor . Ratings for Democratic leaders are equally low – 29 % for House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and 27 % for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid .
U.S. adults believe that partisans can not agree on basic facts , according to the same survey . The vast majority of Americans ( 85 % ) say that Trump and Biden supporters can not agree on basic facts about important issues facing the country – similar to findings about Republican and Democratic voters in 2018 . And eight-in-ten say they think Americans tend to get different facts depending on which news sources they turn to . On both measures , Trump and Biden supporters largely agree . About nine-in-ten in each group say they disagree on basic facts ( 89 % of Trump voters say this , as do 91 % of Biden voters ) . And more than eight-in-ten in each group say that Americans often get different facts depending on which news sources they turn to ( 89 % of Trump voters say this , as do 84 % of Biden voters ) .
Despite the public 's continued negative assessment of the national economy , half of Americans expect that economic conditions in the country will be better a year from now ( down modestly from the 55 % who said this in April ) . Just 22 % of the public thinks that economic conditions will be worse , and 27 % think economic conditions will be about the same as they are today . Most Republicans are optimistic about future economic conditions in the country : Two-thirds of Republicans say economic conditions in the country will be better a year from now , while 12 % say they will be worse and 20 % expect conditions to be about the same as they are today . Democrats are more divided : While 38 % think the economy will be better a year from now , 30 % say it will be worse and 32 % expect conditions will be about the same .
Overall , 59 % of Americans think news organizations do not understand people like them , while a minority – 37 % – say they do feel understood . This feeling is about on par with the last time the question was asked in 2018 .
Since the 2008 financial crisis , perceptions about the economic balance of power in the world have been shifting . Looking at the 20 nations surveyed in both 2008 and 2013 , the median percentage naming the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power has declined from 47 % to 41 % , while the median percentage placing China in the top spot has risen from 20 % to 34 % .
The survey examined attitudes toward five world leaders , and overall Donald Trump receives the most negative ratings among the five . A median of 70 % across the 25 nations polled lack confidence in the American leader . Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping also receive mostly negative reviews . In contrast , opinions about German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron are generally positive . Both leaders are mostly popular in the EU , although there are regional divides within Europe , with Merkel and Macron receiving favorable ratings in the Northern European nations surveyed and less stellar reviews in Eastern and Southern Europe .
At the same time , a third or more of Americans think that unethical behavior is treated relatively lightly – that is to say , wrongdoers face serious consequences only a little of the time or less often . Indeed , majorities believe that members of Congress ( 79 % ) , local elected officials ( 57 % ) , leaders of technology companies ( 55 % ) and journalists ( 54 % ) admit mistakes and take responsibility for them only a little of the time or none of the time . Some 49 % say the same of religious leaders .
A majority of Americans ( 55 % ) say that , if they were to wear a mask in their local area , people around them would generally approve ; only 4 % think that people in their communities would disapprove , while 40 % say that people would not care one way or the other .
The assassination captured the nation 's attention , with 90 % of the public later recalling that they saw the event `` at about the time '' it happened , according to a 1992 survey by the Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press . Among people who were born in 1957 or before , the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy , the Moon landing and the funeral of John F. Kennedy ( born in 1952 or before ) were recalled by virtually all of those old enough to remember the events .
A few weeks after President Donald Trump 's announcement of Neil Gorsuch as his nominee to the Supreme Court , 44 % of Americans say they favor the Senate confirming him to the high court , while 32 % are opposed ; roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) offer no opinion . Overall views of Gorsuch 's nomination are similar to views of Barack Obama 's choice of Merrick Garland nearly a year ago . Last March , 46 % favored Senate confirmation of Garland , 30 % were opposed and 24 % had no opinion .
Half of Americans expect China 's global influence to wane after the pandemic . China 's response to the virus has been met with disapproval by many Americans , half of whom believe the country 's international reputation will take a hit as a result of the virus . About a third ( 31 % ) of Americans think China 's influence will remain the same , and roughly a fifth ( 17 % ) expect it will grow .
We looked at data compiled by Eurostat , the EU 's statistical agency , on asylum applications to the 28 nations in the bloc ( along with four other European countries that follow the EU 's rules for handling asylum requests ) . So far this year , according to the data , migrants have their best chance of gaining asylum if they ( a ) are from Syria , Eritrea or Iraq , and ( b ) apply in Bulgaria , Denmark or Malta .
There is a similar shift of public trust in scientists . Among Democrats , 52 % have a great deal of confidence in scientists to act in the public interest , up from 43 % in 2019 . By contrast , there has been no change in Republicans ' trust : 27 % have a great deal of confidence in scientists , the same as in 2019 . Thus , there is a growing partisan divide when it comes to confidence in scientists . ( The survey asked a random half of respondents to rate their confidence in medical scientists and the other random half to rate their confidence in scientists . )
People who use social media sites are also more likely today than in the past to describe the political discourse on these platforms in negative terms . Roughly two-thirds of users ( 68 % ) now say they find it `` stressful and frustrating '' to talk about politics on social media with people they disagree with , up from 59 % in 2016 . Conversely , 27 % of users today say they find these interactions `` interesting and informative , '' compared with 35 % three years prior . The new survey also finds that users generally do not find common ground with others during online discussions about politics . Two-thirds of users ( 67 % ) say that discussing politics on social media with people they disagree with usually leads them to find out they have `` less in common politically '' than they expected . About a quarter ( 26 % ) report finding out they have `` more in common '' than previously thought . These shares are statistically unchanged from 2016 .
Mobile technology has spread rapidly around the globe . Today , it is estimated that more than 5 billion people have mobile devices , and over half of these connections are smartphones . But the growth in mobile technology to date has not been equal , either across nations or within them . People in advanced economies are more likely to have mobile phones – smartphones in particular – and are more likely to use the internet and social media than people in emerging economies . For example , a median of 76 % across 18 advanced economies surveyed have smartphones , compared with a median of only 45 % in emerging economies .
The survey shows that higher levels of familiarity with Islam , and especially knowing someone who is Muslim , are associated with more positive views toward the religion . For example , among the group with the highest level of familiarity with Islam , most reject the idea that Islam encourages violence ( 57 % ) . By contrast , fewer than half of those with medium familiarity with Islam ( 46 % ) and one-third of those with little familiarity ( 34 % ) reject the idea of a link between Islam and violence . Not surprisingly , people with lower levels of familiarity with Islam exhibit higher levels of non-response in attitudes about Islam , saying they do not know whether it is more or less likely than other religions to encourage violence .
Paris Hilton 's troubles aside , the public remained focused on the war in Iraq last week . Fully 32 % said they were following the situation in Iraq very closely and 25 % said it was the story they followed most closely . Interest in Iraq remained substantial even though news coverage of Iraq declined significantly . Only 4 % of the national news was devoted to events on the ground in Iraq and 2 % to the Iraq policy debate . The policy debate had consistently been a top five story from the time George Bush announced the surge strategy in January through the end of May .
The degree to which Americans report experiencing effects of climate change in their local community varies by geographic region . Americans in Pacific states ( which include California , Washington , Oregon , Hawaii and Alaska ) are most likely to see at least some local impacts of climate change ( 72 % ) . By comparison , 54 % of those living in Mountain states ( Arizona , Colorado , Nevada , Utah , New Mexico , Idaho , Montana and Wyoming ) say climate change is affecting their local area at least some .
The Russian public feels confident about their country 's global standing , according to a new Pew Research Center survey , even as signs of discontent emerge at home . Here are four key findings about how Russians see their nation 's place in the world : A majority of Russians believe their country is playing a more important role in the world today than it did a decade ago . Other publics with a sense of growing global importance include China and India . In a spring 2016 survey , three-quarters of Chinese and 68 % of Indians said their country is more influential compared with a decade ago . Such confidence contrasts with European views , where a median of just 23 % across 10 European Union nations felt their country 's global influence was on the rise in 2016 .
Clinton and Trump supporters also have widely diverging views of scientists who study climate change . About half of Clinton supporters ( 51 % ) say climate scientists understand very well whether or not climate change is occurring compared with just 17 % of Trump supporters who believe that . Few voters give climate scientists high marks for understanding the best ways to address climate change . About a third of Clinton supporters ( 32 % ) and just one-in-ten Trump supporters ( 10 % ) say climate scientists understand the ways to address climate change very well .
There are age and educational differences in how people rate their own ideology . Among adults under 50 , more place their ideology at the liberal ( 23 % ) than conservative ( 17 % ) end of the scale . Among those 50 and older the ideological balance is reversed : 34 % use one of the most conservative points to describe their ideology , while 19 % use one of the most liberal points .
There also is widespread disappointment among Muslims that Iraq did not put up more of a fight against the U.S. and its allies . Overwhelming majorities in Morocco ( 93 % ) , Jordan ( 91 % ) , Lebanon ( 82 % ) , Turkey ( 82 % ) , Indonesia ( 82 % ) , and the Palestinian Authority ( 81 % ) say they are disappointed the Iraqi military put up so little resistance . Many others around the world share that view , including people in South Korea ( 58 % ) , Brazil ( 50 % ) and Russia ( 45 % ) .
Republicans and Republican leaners are divided on the question for the first time : 47 % favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry , while a nearly identical share is opposed ( 48 % ) . Fully three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 76 % ) say they favor allowing same-sex marriage , compared to just 19 % who are opposed . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , a majority of Millennials ( 60 % ) support same-sex marriage , while 38 % are opposed . About half of Gen X Republicans ( 51 % ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally . Majorities of Republican Baby Boomers ( 53 % ) and Republican Silents ( 62 % ) continue to oppose same-sex marriage .
As in the past , favorability ratings for Mitch McConnell and Nancy Pelosi are more negative than positive . Only 27 % view McConnell favorably , while 45 % view him unfavorably ; about a quarter ( 28 % ) have no opinion of the Senate Majority leader . A third view Pelosi favorably , while 49 % view her unfavorably and 18 % have no opinion .
The U.S. image remains abysmal in most Muslim countries in the Middle East and Asia , and continues to decline among the publics of many of America 's oldest allies . Favorable views of the U.S. are in single digits in Turkey ( 9 % ) and have declined to 15 % in Pakistan . Currently , just 30 % of Germans have a positive view of the U.S. — down from 42 % as recently as two years ago — and favorable ratings inch ever lower in Great Britain and Canada .
Around four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 41 % ) have experienced some form of online harassment , and an even larger share – 66 % – have seen this happen to others . Pew Research Center measured online harassment by asking respondents if they had personally experienced at least one of six types of behavior online : Offensive name-calling , purposeful embarrassment , physical threats , harassment over a sustained period of time , sexual harassment or stalking . Overall , 41 % of U.S. adults say they have been the target of at least one of these harassing behaviors online , representing a modest increase from 2014 , when 35 % of Americans said they had been harassed online . And while 22 % of Americans say they have experienced only less severe forms of online harassment , such as name-calling or embarrassment , 18 % have been the target of more severe forms of online harassment , including physical threats , sustained harassment , stalking and sexual harassment .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) say the option to vote early or absentee should be available to any voter without requiring a documented reason , while a third say early and absentee voting should only be allowed with a reason , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 16 - 22 . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents overwhelmingly support so-called `` no excuse '' early or absentee voting : 83 % say this . Among the small share of Democrats who do not , most say the coronavirus outbreak should qualify as a documented reason . GOP views are more divided : 44 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say no documented reason should be necessary to vote early or absentee , while 55 % say one should be . Among Republicans who say a documented reason is needed , most say the coronavirus outbreak should not be considered a valid reason : 37 % of all Republicans say early and absentee voting only should be allowed with a documented reason and say that COVID-19 is not an acceptable reason ; 17 % say a documented reason should be required , but that COVID-19 should be a valid reason . Americans ' support for no-excuse absentee voting has decreased modestly from 71 % in October 2018 to 65 % today – a result of shifting views among Republicans . Today , a 55 % majority of Republicans say voters should only be allowed to vote early or absentee if they have a documented reason for not voting on Election Day , up from 42 % who said this in 2018 .
While the parties ' most prominent economic policy goals may differ , majorities of both Five Star ( 82 % ) and League supporters ( 74 % ) agree that it is the government 's responsibility to ensure a decent standard of living for all . Moreover , about two-thirds of both parties ' supporters strongly feel the government should guarantee everyone a decent standard of living , which is substantially higher than the 51 % who say this among the rest of the Italian public .
History remains a neuralgic issue in Sino-Japanese relations . Seven decades after the end of World War II , the two publics have starkly differing perceptions of whether Japan has expressed adequate regret for its wartime behavior . Roughly half the Japanese say their country has apologized sufficiently for its military actions during the 1930s and 1940s . And such sentiment is up 13 percentage points since 2006 . The Chinese see this issue quite differently . Just 10 % of Chinese believe Japan has apologized enough . And the difference between Japanese and Chinese sentiment has grown from 37 points to 43 points in the past decade .
Against this backdrop , the public expressed rising concern about race relations . In an August survey conducted shortly after the violence in Charlottesville , nearly six-in-ten Americans said they viewed racism as a big problem in U.S. society — up 8 percentage points from 2015 and roughly double the share who held this view in November 2011 . But there were stark divisions along racial and partisan lines . For example , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents were far more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to see racism as a big problem . A similar trend was evident on a separate question about whether white people in the U.S. benefit from societal advantages that blacks do not have : Democrats and Democratic leaners were much more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to say whites do benefit from such advantages .
Currently , 64 % of voters say if the Republicans keep control of Congress , they are very or somewhat concerned that the GOP will not focus enough on oversight of the administration . A smaller majority ( 55 % ) expresses concern that if the Democrats take control of Congress , they will focus too much on investigating the Trump administration . In June , identical shares of voters ( 58 % each ) had concerns over both possible scenarios . By contrast , only about half of Republican voters ( 52 % ) say they are very concerned that if Democrats win control of Congress , they will focus too much on investigating the Trump administration . That is lower than the share of Republican voters ( 58 % ) expressing a high level of concern over Democratic overreach in June .
There are only minor demographic differences in reported emotional reactions about the state of the country . Two-thirds or more across all age groups say they are angry about the state of the nation , with those ages 18 to 29 modestly more likely than older groups to say this ( 76 % report feeling angry ) . And roughly two-thirds across age groups say they are fearful about the state of the country these days . There are similarly no significant age differences in the shares saying they are hopeful or proud . About two-thirds of white ( 66 % ) , Black ( 67 % ) and Hispanic ( 68 % ) adults each say they feel fearful about the state of the country . Identical shares of white and Black adults say they feel angry ( 72 % each ) , while roughly as many Hispanic adults ( 67 % ) say this .
The view from abroad is mostly one of disapproval . In most countries we surveyed in 2014 , majorities opposed U.S. government monitoring of emails and phone calls of foreign leaders or their citizens . And a median of 62 % in 43 countries also oppose U.S. monitoring of American citizens . In contrast , Americans tilt toward the view that eavesdropping on foreign leaders is an acceptable practice , though they are divided over using this technique on average people in other countries . But six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) also oppose the government monitoring communications of U.S. citizens .
4 What 's the news experience like on Facebook ? Our study of news consumption on Facebook found Facebook users are experiencing a relatively diverse array of news stories on the site — roughly half of Facebook users regularly see six different topic areas . The most common news people see is entertainment news : 73 % of Facebook users regularly see this kind of content on the site . Unlike Twitter , where a core function is the distribution of information as news breaks , Facebook is not yet a place many turn to for learning about breaking news . ( Though the company may be trying to change that by tweaking its algorithm to make the posts appearing in newsfeed more timely . ) Still , just 28 % of Facebook news consumers ever use the site to keep up with a news event as it unfolds , less than half of those users would turn to Facebook first to follow breaking news .
Americans overwhelmingly support direct talks between the United States and North Korea over its nuclear program . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) approve of these talks , while just 21 % disapprove . However , the public is skeptical about whether North Korea 's leaders are serious about addressing concerns over its nuclear program . Overall , 49 % say North Korea 's leadership is not serious about addressing international concerns over the country 's nuclear enrichment program , while 38 % think North Korea 's leaders are serious about addressing these concerns .
Indians have high opinions of the U.S. and President Obama . Later this month , U.S. President Barack Obama and Indian Prime Minister Modi will meet in New York to discuss , among other issues , climate change – a top concern for Indians . Meanwhile , 70 % of Indians hold a favorable view of the U.S. , and ratings of Obama , who visited India in January 2015 , are even higher , with nearly three-quarters of the public expressing confidence in him to do the right thing regarding world affairs .
Russia and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe have experienced a resurgence of Orthodox Christian identity since the fall of the Soviet Union , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of 18 countries in the region . This increase in religious identity is accompanied in large part by high levels of religious belief , such as belief in God .
There also are striking educational differences in partisans ' views of global warming . Among Republicans , higher education is linked to greater skepticism about global warming — fully 43 % of Republicans with a college degree say that there is no evidence of global warming , compared with 24 % of Republicans with less education . But among Democrats , the pattern is the reverse . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that there is solid evidence of global warming and that it is caused by human activities . This is far higher than among Democrats with less education among whom 52 % say the same . Independents , regardless of education levels , fall in between these partisan extremes .
While the idea of raising the minimum wage is broadly popular , a Pew Research Center survey this past August found clear partisan and racial differences in support . Overall , 52 % of people favored increasing the federal minimum to $ 15 an hour , but that idea was favored by just 21 % of Trump supporters ( versus 82 % of Clinton backers ) . And while large majorities of blacks and Hispanics supported a $ 15 federal minimum wage , 54 % of whites opposed it ,
A national opinion survey of Mexico by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 4 - 17 among 1,000 adults , finds that roughly two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Mexicans have a favorable opinion of the U.S. – up from 56 % a year ago and dramatically higher than it was following the passage of Arizona 's restrictive immigration law in 2010 , when favorable Mexican attitudes toward the United States slipped to 44 % .
When asked what they think their own house of worship should be doing , the survey finds substantial differences between Republican and Democratic religious attenders – but majorities in both groups favor some level of caution about the virus . ( In this analysis , regular attenders are those who said before the pandemic that they typically attend services at least once or twice a month , as well as those who attended in person in the last month prior to when the survey was conducted July 13 to 19 . ) Among regularly attending Democrats , 44 % think their house of worship should not be open to the public at all – much larger than the share of Republicans who say the same ( 16 % ) . But most Republican attenders ( 64 % ) say that their house of worship should be open with precautions in place due to the coronavirus outbreak , such as requiring that congregants remain 6 feet apart or wear masks , or limiting the number of people who can attend at one time . About half of Democratic congregants ( 48 % ) prefer this approach .
Older Americans are the most likely to see the outbreak as a major threat to their health and the least likely to see it as a threat to their personal financial situation . About half ( 49 % ) of those 65 and older said in a late April-early May survey that the coronavirus is a major threat to their health . But fewer in this age group – 32 % – say it is a major threat to their personal finances .
Americans are somewhat divided on their biggest fear . While many name inequality ( 27 % ) , around a quarter also see religious and ethnic hatred ( 24 % ) and the spread of nuclear weapons ( 23 % ) as top threats . But as with many issues in the U.S. , there is a party divide . Republicans are more likely than Democrats to name ethnic hatred as a top concern . And Democrats are more apt to name the gap between the rich and the poor as the greatest danger . Independents are more divided .
Single adults accounted for the majority of apprehensions in fiscal 2020 , another big shift from last year . There were 317,864 apprehensions of single adults , representing 79 % of the total and the largest number of single adults apprehended in six years . Apprehensions of `` family units '' – defined as the number of individuals traveling in a family – made up 13 % of the total , falling from 473,682 in fiscal 2019 to 52,230 this past year . Meanwhile , apprehensions of unaccompanied children ages 17 and younger also decreased from their peak in fiscal 2019 , from 76,020 to 30,557 .
In the survey conducted Dec. 15 - 18 , three stories topped the public 's news interest . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the economic situation most closely , while 17 % each say their top story was either the candidates for president in 2012 or the child sex abuse scandal at Penn State .
While most see obesity as a substantial public health issue , there is limited support for the government playing a major role in anti-obesity efforts . Overall , 42 % say government should play a significant role in reducing obesity , 54 % say it should not . While majorities of Republicans and Democrats say obesity has broad social consequences , there are sharp partisan differences about whether the government should have a role in reducing obesity . By a margin of 60 % -37 % , Democrats believe the government should play a significant role in curbing obesity . But just 20 % of Republicans say this , while 77 % of Republicans do not want the government to play a significant role . Among independents , more say the government should not play a significant role ( 56 % ) than say that it should ( 41 % ) .
News about the recent gains in the stock market was tracked very closely by 23 % of the public , with 7 % calling it their top story . Interest was lower for Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 's trip to India and Southeast Asia : just 10 % followed the story very closely and even fewer ( 2 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely . Nearly half ( 45 % ) say they did n't follow this story closely at all .
Young Indians think the BJP is best suited to deal with India 's problems . By roughly three-to-one Indians ages 18 to 29 say the BJP will do a better job combatting corruption , creating jobs , curbing inflation , reducing terrorism , helping the poor and ending political gridlock .
Roughly a third of Americans living in urban ( 35 % ) and suburban ( 36 % ) areas say they have ordered from a local restaurant online or through an app because of the outbreak , compared with 21 % of those living in rural areas . In addition , college graduates are more likely than those with some college experience or those who have a high school education or less to say they have ordered food online or through an app from a local restaurant . College graduates ( 28 % ) are more likely than those with some college ( 21 % ) or a high school education or less ( 16 % ) to report that they have ordered groceries online . Similarly , about a quarter ( 26 % ) of Americans ages 30 to 49 say that they have ordered groceries online or through an app from a local store as a result of the coronavirus outbreak , while only 18 % of those 50 and older say the same . ( Adults ages 18 to 29 do not significantly differ from older groups . )
In addition , about one-in-seven adults ( 15 % ) say they have taken steps to reduce their risk of getting the virus .
For example , the Mexico-U.S. migration corridor has been one of the world 's most heavily traveled in recent decades . Today , about 12 million people born in Mexico are living in the U.S . This number has declined in recent years as net flows have reversed , with more Mexican immigrants leaving the U.S. than entering it . Also , the number of unauthorized Mexican immigrants in the U.S. has declined by 1 million between 2007 and 2014 , even as the total number of unauthorized immigrants has stabilized at about 11.1 million .
Last July 's military takeover wins support from a slender majority : 54 % favor it ; 43 % oppose . And while the next president is almost certain to be Abdel Fattah El-Sisi , the former general who has been the most powerful figure in the country since last year 's overthrow of the government , the new poll finds that his popularity is limited . Sisi receives a favorable rating from 54 % of Egyptians , while 45 % view him unfavorably , a more mixed review than many media reports from Egypt over the last year might suggest .
The economy was the public 's top story last week , outpacing interest in the election and news about events in Afghanistan . Overall , 36 % say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely compared with 31 % who very closely followed election news and 18 % who followed the current situation and events in Afghanistan . A week prior , public interest was divided among the economy , Hurricane Isaac and the election . A third ( 33 % ) said the followed news about the economy very closely , 31 % followed news about Hurricane Isaac very closely and 29 % followed news about the candidates for the 2012 presidential election very closely .
But despite QAnon 's spread , about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say they have heard or read nothing at all about it , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in February and March . Around a quarter ( 23 % ) say they have heard or read a lot or a little , with 3 % saying they 've heard or read a lot . The data was gathered as part of the Center 's Election News Pathways project .
Roughly one-in-four Americans ( 27 % ) followed news about the Iraq war very closely and 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story for the week . News about an earthquake that struck the Los Angeles area attracted the very close attention of 17 % of the public . Predictably , residents of the West Coast followed the story more closely than residents of other regions of the country . The earthquake , which caused little damage last week , received 2 % of all news coverage .
From February 9 to August 9 , 2009 , only a fraction of stories contained substantial references to Hispanics–just 645 out of 34,452 studied . And only a tiny number , 57 stories , focused directly on the lives of Hispanics in the U.S. , according to a media content analysis done jointly by the Project for Excellence in Journalism and the Pew Hispanic Center , both of which are projects of the Pew Research Center .
Similarly , those with the highest levels of familiarity with Islam express the most favorable views of Muslims . Nearly six-in-ten of those most familiar with Islam express favorable views of Muslims , compared with less than four-in-ten among those with less familiarity . Regardless of their familiarity with Islam , more Americans say that their beliefs are different from rather than similar to the Muslim religion . However , even on this question , those who are most familiar with Islam stand out as being more likely to say that their religion is similar to Islam ( 27 % vs. 7 % among those with low familiarity ) . More than a third ( 35 % ) of those with low familiarity say they do not know whether their religion is similar to or different from Islam .
There has been no significant change in public views on the issue of gun control and gun rights following the July 20th shooting at a movie theater in Aurora , Colorado . Currently , 47 % say it is more important to control gun ownership , while 46 % say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns . That is virtually unchanged from a survey earlier this year in April , when 45 % prioritized gun control and 49 % gun rights .
When it comes to what rules should apply to drone use , roughly half the public ( 54 % ) thinks drones should not be allowed to fly near people 's homes . Just 11 % think this should be allowed , while 34 % think it is OK in certain circumstances but not others . Around half of the public ( 53 % ) says private citizens should not be allowed to pilot drones near accidents or crime scenes , while a plurality ( 45 % ) says this practice should not be allowed at public events like concerts or rallies . By comparison , Americans are more broadly accepting of drone use by private citizens in locations such as beaches or public parks .
Opinions among Republicans and Republican leaners are more divided : 53 % say hard work has more to do with why a person is rich , while 45 % say it is because they have more advantages . In views of why a person is poor , 55 % of Republicans say it is more because they have faced obstacles most others have not , while 42 % say it is more because they have not worked as hard as most others .
The typical ( median ) American owned two of the above devices and 17 % said they only owned one of these devices . Some 77 % of single-device owners said their one device was a cell phone . Another 17 % of those with one device said it was a desktop , while 6 % said it was a laptop . Fewer than 1 % of these one-device owners said their only device was an e-reader , and none said that their one device was a tablet computer .
Many people in Asia-Pacific countries have negative views of North Korea . Among the countries surveyed , the Japanese are most negative on North Korea : 94 % say they have an unfavorable view , including 78 % who say they have a very unfavorable opinion . In Australia , the U.S. and South Korea , roughly three-quarters or more say they have unfavorable views . Across the region , only Filipinos have a generally positive view of North Korea , with more than half ( 53 % ) holding a favorable view .
1 . The Latino population 's growth is now driven by the children and grandchildren of immigrants . This has been true since 2000 and has started to change the composition of the Latino population as the share foreign born has begun to decline . For example , among Latinos younger than 18 , 93 % were born in the U.S .
There are differences by age as well , but even among families headed by a young adult ( those under 35 ) , 41 % own some stock , either directly or indirectly . This is true of a majority of households headed by those ages 35 to 64 and half of those ages 65 and older . Assets accumulated over time also vary by age . The median amount invested by young adult households is relatively small – $ 7,700 among those younger than 35 . And it rises steadily with age : $ 22,000 for households headed by 35- to 44-year-olds , $ 51,000 for those ages 45 to 54 and $ 80,000 or higher for those 55 and older .
Univision 's total revenue remained steady at slightly less than $ 3 billion in 2018 . ( Telemundo 's revenue is not available for analysis , as its parent company , Comcast , does not provide network-specific revenue . )
News about health care reform and the nation 's economy continues to dominate the public 's attention . Almost three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say health care reform is the story they followed most closely last week , while 16 % say they followed economic news most closely . Asked to rate how closely they followed these stories , 41 % say they followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely , while 40 % say the same about the debate over health care reform .
Majorities across all demographic groups consider the internet at least important during this time , but there are some distinctions on whether they have found it be essential . Roughly two-thirds of adults under the age of 50 say the internet has been essential for them during the outbreak , compared with 49 % of adults ages 50 to 64 and 31 % of adults age 65 and older . There are also some differences by education level . Some 65 % of college graduates say the internet has been essential during the outbreak , compared with 52 % of adults with some college education and 42 % of those with a high school education or less . Upper-income adults , Hispanics , and urban or suburban residents are also particularly likely to describe the internet as essential for them during the coronavirus outbreak .
The breadth of the demands made by Brazilian demonstrators is reflected in the latest Pew Research Center poll of Brazil , which finds that 55 % of Brazilians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country , even as 59 % give national economic conditions a positive rating and 74 % say their personal financial situation is good ( although at least 70 % see rising prices , lack of job opportunities , the gap between the rich and the poor , and public debt as very big problems in Brazil ) .
Americans and scientists agree on the value of space exploration , but disagree on the importance of human astronauts . As was the case with the general public , a solid majority ( 68 % ) of members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science ( AAAS ) surveyed by Pew Research said the space station was a good investment .
As you might have guessed , the restaurant and food service industry is the single biggest employer of near-minimum workers . Last year , according to our analysis , that industry employed 3.75 million near-minimum workers , about 18 % of the total . Many of those workers , presumably , are tipped , so their actual gross pay may be above $ 10.10 an hour . ( Federal law , as well as wage laws in many states , allow tipped employees to be paid less as long as `` tip credits '' bring their pay up to at least the applicable minimum . ) However , other industries are even more reliant on near-minimum-wage workers . Based on our estimates , industries where more than three-quarters of the hourly workers make more than minimum but less than $ 10.10 an hour include scrapyards , video-rental stores ( the few remaining ) , mail-order houses , makers of mobile homes and other prefabricated buildings , and car washes .
For the most part , teens tend to use similar platforms regardless of their demographic characteristics , but there are exceptions . Notably , lower-income teens are more likely to gravitate toward Facebook than those from higher-income households – a trend consistent with previous Center surveys . Seven-in-ten teens living in households earning less than $ 30,000 a year say they use Facebook , compared with 36 % whose annual family income is $ 75,000 or more . ( For details on social media platform use by different demographic groups , see Appendix A . ) Again , lower-income teens are far more likely than those from higher income households to say Facebook is the online platform they use most often ( 22 % vs. 4 % ) . There are also some differences related to gender and to race and ethnicity when it comes to teens ' most-used sites . Girls are more likely than boys to say Snapchat is the site they use most often ( 42 % vs. 29 % ) , while boys are more inclined than girls to identify YouTube as their go-to platform ( 39 % vs. 25 % ) . Additionally , white teens ( 41 % ) are more likely than Hispanic ( 29 % ) or black ( 23 % ) teens to say Snapchat is the online platform they use most often , while black teens are more likely than whites to identify Facebook as their most used site ( 26 % vs. 7 % ) .
There is far less support for expanding fossil fuel energy sources . Majorities oppose expanding coal mining ( 65 % ) , hydraulic fracturing ( 60 % ) and offshore oil and gas drilling ( 58 % ) .
Across the 10 European countries surveyed , publics disagree about whether people leaving for jobs in other countries is a problem . Half or more in Sweden , the Netherlands , Germany , the UK and France say this is not a problem , while majorities in Greece , Spain , Italy and Hungary express concern .
In the mid-1990s , as the stock market was beginning its metoric rise , the month-to-month changes in the Dow Jones Industrial Average had little connection to shifts in consumer sentiment , as measured in monthly surveys conducted by the University of Michigan . From 1992 to 1994 , and again from 1995 to 1997 , changes in consumer confidence were virtually unrelated to movement of the Dow ( see chart ) .
While partisans are about equally likely to say they followed news about the Secret Service investigation very closely , Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say they followed the GSA story very closely ( 23 % vs. 15 % ) . About two-in-ten independents ( 18 % ) say this as well .
The word `` substantially '' was also removed from the following sentence : `` Links associated with Twitter itself are shared by suspected bot accounts about 50 % of the time – a substantially smaller share than the other primary categories of content analyzed . '' The 50 % figure is substantially smaller than only five of the six categories . This correction does not materially change the analysis of the report . In the context of these ongoing arguments over the role and nature of bots , Pew Research Center set out to better understand how many of the links being shared on Twitter – most of which refer to a site outside the platform itself – are being promoted by bots rather than humans . To do this , the Center used a list of 2,315 of the most popular websites1 and examined the roughly 1.2 million tweets ( sent by English language users ) that included links to those sites during a roughly six-week period in summer 2017 . The results illustrate the pervasive role that automated accounts play in disseminating links to a wide range of prominent websites on Twitter . These findings are based on an analysis of a random sample of about 1.2 million tweets from English language users containing links to popular websites over the time period of July 27 to Sept. 11 , 2017.4 To construct the list of popular sites used in this analysis , the Center identified nearly 3,000 of the most-shared websites during the first 18 days of the study period and coded them based on a variety of characteristics .5 After removing links that were dead , duplicated or directed to sites without sufficient information to classify their content , researchers arrived at a list of 2,315 websites .
By nearly three-to-one ( 73 % to 25 % ) , the public supports requiring better vehicle fuel efficiency . An identical percentage ( 73 % ) favors federal funding for alternative energy research , while two-thirds ( 67 % ) back more spending on mass transit .
Discomfort with the idea of a child marrying outside one 's own religious circle is widespread among Israelis . Nearly all Jews ( 97 % ) say they would not be comfortable with their child marrying a Muslim , and 89 % say this about a child marrying a Christian . Among Muslims , 82 % say they would be uncomfortable with a child marrying a Jew , and 75 % say the same about a child marrying a Christian . Christians and Druze also are strongly opposed to religious intermarriage .
2 In the U.S. , Christians are particularly likely ( 99 % ) to believe in God or a higher power , with 80 % claiming faith in a biblical God . Three-quarters of Christians describe God as all-loving , all-knowing and all-powerful . Like Christians , most Jews ( 89 % ) have faith in a deity . But just a third of Jews ( 33 % ) say they believe in God as described in the Bible , while 56 % say they believe in some other higher power . Jews are also more likely than Christians to say they do n't believe in a spiritual force of any kind ( 10 % vs. 1 % ) . Finally , among those who describe themselves as religiously unaffiliated – also known as `` nones '' – 72 % say they believe in a higher power of some kind .
As was the case in March , conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats have contrasting opinions about the Supreme Court 's ideology . Half ( 50 % ) of conservative Republicans say the court is liberal , compared with just 8 % who say it is conservative ( 35 % say it is `` middle of the road '' ) . Liberal Democrats are far more likely to say the court is conservative ( 40 % ) than liberal ( 19 % ) , with 35 % saying it is middle of the road . The percentage of conservative Republicans who view the Supreme Court as liberal has increased markedly since the Bush administration . In 2007 , just 22 % of conservative Republicans said the court was liberal . That percentage rose to 39 % in 2010 and stands at 50 % today .
The American public is closely divided over the degree of health risk posed by additives present in the foods we regularly eat . Majorities see at least some risk from eating food produced with common agricultural and processing practices , including meat from animals given hormones or antibiotics , produce grown with pesticides and foods with artificial ingredients . And about half of the public says that foods with genetically modified ( GM ) ingredients are worse for one 's health than foods without , according to a new nationally representative survey from Pew Research Center . Seven-in-ten Americans ( 70 % ) believe that science has had a mostly positive effect on the quality of food in the United States . But when asked about one area where new developments in biotechnology are changing the possibilities for how we grow and consume foods , the public is closely divided . Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) believe that foods with GM ingredients are worse for one 's health than non-GM foods , while 44 % say such foods are neither better nor worse and 5 % say they are better for one 's health .
These shifts are reflected in the composition of the partisan coalitions . Today , Christians make up about half of Democratic voters ( 52 % ) ; in 2008 , about three-quarters of Democrats ( 73 % ) were Christians . The share of Democratic voters who are religiously unaffiliated has approximately doubled over this period ( from 18 % to 38 % ) .
Ideological consistency . Currently , 23 % of Democrats have liberal views across nearly all items on a 10-item political values scale , while another 33 % have mostly liberal views . Among Republicans , comparable shares have either consistently conservative ( 20 % ) or mostly conservative ( 33 % ) attitudes .
Many Americans struggle to understand the nature and scope of data collected about them . When it comes to their own role in managing their personal information , most adults are not sure what information is being collected or how it is being used . While half of those surveyed said they felt confident they understood how their information would be used , 47 % said they were not , and many of these people felt confused , discouraged or impatient when trying to make decisions about sharing their personal information with companies .
The higher levels of caution that Black and Hispanic adults have with respect to COVID-19 also are apparent when it comes to opinions about how – or if – houses of worship should be operating right now . Black and Hispanic attenders are far more likely than white attenders to say that their own congregation should be closed for in-person services : About four-in-ten Black ( 42 % ) and Hispanic attenders ( 37 % ) say this , compared with 21 % of white attenders . It is not that most white attenders think their congregations should be open without restrictions ; just 15 % say their houses of worship should currently be open to the public as normal , just as they were before the pandemic . But among white attenders , a majority ( 63 % ) think their congregation should be open for in-person religious services with modifications in place due to the coronavirus outbreak – such as social distancing , mask requirements or limited attendance . Fewer Black ( 44 % ) and Hispanic ( 51 % ) attenders say this is the right option for their congregations . Opinions about what houses of worship should be doing during the coronavirus outbreak seem to reflect what respondents ' congregations actually are doing . White worshippers are much more likely than their Black and Hispanic counterparts to report that their congregations are holding in-person services with precautions in place . Roughly two-thirds of white attenders ( 65 % ) say their congregation is open in this way , compared with fewer Black ( 37 % ) and Hispanic ( 41 % ) worshippers . Meanwhile , about four-in-ten Black and Hispanic attenders say the congregation they attend most often is currently closed for in-person worship , compared with one-quarter of white attenders who say this .
Education is also tied to views about how the pandemic will shape America 's role in international affairs . In general , Americans who have completed higher levels of education are more likely to think the country 's global influence will recede . For example , 45 % of those with postgraduate degrees think the U.S. 's global position will decline after the pandemic , compared with just 21 % of those with a high school diploma or less .
Fully 59 % of Democratic voters say there is a good chance they would vote for Clinton , while an additional 28 % say there is some chance ( just 10 % say there is no chance ) . Though Joe Biden is similarly well-known , just 22 % say there is a good chance they would vote for him , while 47 % say there is some chance of this ( 23 % say there is no chance ) .
Four-in-ten ( 41 % ) Twitter users who are very interested in politics say that at least half of the posts that they see are political . This compares with about a quarter ( 26 % ) of highly politically-interested Facebook users who say the same .
A separate survey conducted in June and July last year found wide party gaps in views of gender and leadership . About eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 79 % ) said there are too few women in high political offices , compared with 33 % of Republicans and Republican leaners – a 46-point gap . The gender gap on this question was substantial , with 69 % of women overall saying there are too few women in office compared with 48 % of men . Among Republicans , gender gaps in views of women in leadership were particularly wide . By 20 percentage points , Republican women were more likely than their male counterparts to say there are too few women in high political offices in the U.S. today . And while most Republican women said it 's easier for men to get these positions , closer to half of GOP men said the same . ( There are also party and gender divides in views of women in corporate leadership . )
Americans who have never used a dating site or app are particularly skeptical about the safety of online dating . Roughly half of adults who have never used a dating or app ( 52 % ) believe that these platforms are a not too or not at all safe way to meet others , compared with 29 % of those who have online dated .
This pattern also is seen in views of the parties ' efforts in addressing concerns of several other groups : Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say their party does too little to address the concerns of blacks ( 50 % of Democrats vs. 32 % of Republicans ) , Hispanics ( 43 % vs. 29 % ) and men ( 26 % vs. 16 % ) . And while 64 % of Democrats say their party does too little to address the concerns of people in rural areas , a smaller share of Republicans ( 45 % ) say this about the GOP .
Even though more Hispanics are getting a postsecondary education than ever before , Hispanics still lag other groups in obtaining a four-year degree . As of 2014 , among Hispanics ages 25 to 29 , just 15 % of Hispanics have a bachelor 's degree or higher . By comparison , among the same age group , about 41 % of whites have a bachelor 's degree or higher ( as do 22 % of blacks and 63 % of Asians ) . This gap is due in part to the fact that Hispanics are less likely than some other groups to enroll in a four-year college , attend an academically selective college and enroll full-time .
Among those who oppose the flag 's removal , by far the most common reason people cite is that the flag is an important part of history and a symbol of heritage and pride : 54 % describe their feelings in these terms . About a quarter ( 27 % ) of those who say the decision to take the flag down was wrong say that the flag is misunderstood or does not represent racism and slavery . A smaller share ( 17 % ) mention that the flag itself is harmless and removing it was unnecessary , while 15 % view the decision as an overreaction to the Charleston event and 12 % express concern that the decision to take down the flag represents government overreach or impinges on freedom of speech and expression .
To be sure , a substantial share of Americans ( 43 % ) say they did n't attend religious services in person before the pandemic struck and they do n't plan to start going to a church or other house of worship when it 's all over . But 42 % of U.S. adults say they plan to resume going to religious services about as often as they did before the outbreak , while 10 % say they will go more often than they used to , and just 5 % anticipate going less often . Similarly , a lot of Americans are not interested in virtual services : Two-thirds of U.S. adults say they have not watched religious services online or on TV in the past month . But of the one-third of U.S. adults who recently watched services online or on TV , relatively few ( 19 % of this group , or 6 % of all adults ) say that once the pandemic is over , they intend to watch religious services more often than they did before it started .
Veterans who have served in the post-9/11 era have a more positive view than the general public about the overall worth of the Afghanistan and Iraq wars and the tactics the military has used to wage them . Even so , in a Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2011 , only one-third ( 34 % ) of these recent veterans said that both wars have been worth fighting ; nearly as many ( 33 % ) said neither conflict had been worth the costs . However , despite those mixed views and the hardships veterans have endured in the service and in their re-entry into civilian life , they have positive views of their experience .
People in the former West are also more likely than those in the former East ( 50 % vs. 42 % ) to say children today will be better off financially than their parents when they grow up .
A party 's criticism of the European Union does not , however , necessarily translate into disfavor toward Brussels by the party 's adherents . In Italy , 58 % of those who identify with the Euroskeptic Five Star Movement have a positive view of the EU . In Poland , where the ruling Law and Justice ( PiS ) party is in a feud with the EU on a range of issues , two-thirds ( 67 % ) of PiS partisans still have a favorable opinion of the Brussels institution . Much of the disaffection with the EU among Europeans can be attributed to Brussels ' handling of the refugee issue . In every country surveyed , overwhelming majorities disapprove of how Brussels has dealt with the problem . This includes 94 % of Greeks , 88 % of Swedes and 77 % of Italians . The strongest approval of EU management of the refugee crisis is in the Netherlands , but that backing is a tepid 31 % .
About two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they consider the investigation into alleged Russian involvement in the 2016 election to be either very ( 42 % ) or somewhat ( 22 % ) important for the country . A smaller share ( 34 % ) says the investigation is not too ( 12 % ) or not at all ( 22 % ) important . The partisan gap in views of the investigation 's significance is quite large . Nearly nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 88 % ) think the investigation is important ( 64 % call it very important ) . Just 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners call the Russia investigation very ( 18 % ) or somewhat ( 18 % ) important for the country .
Americans have little confidence that private space companies will minimize space debris . Just 13 % of Americans say they have a great deal of confidence that private space companies will minimize the amount of human-made space debris that they put into Earth 's orbit – including fragments of rockets , satellites and other human-made objects . About half ( 51 % ) of Americans say they have not too much or no confidence at all that private companies will minimize the debris they create .
Overall public views of the FBI remain positive : 65 % have a favorable opinion of the FBI , while 26 % view it unfavorably . But since early 2017 , the share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents with a positive view of the bureau has fallen 16 percentage points , from 65 % to 49 % . The national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted July 11 - 15 among 1,007 adults , finds that six-in-ten or more view several federal agencies favorably : the National Park Service ( 83 % favorable ) , the Census Bureau ( 69 % ) , the FBI ( 65 % ) , the CIA ( 61 % ) and the Department of Health and Human Services ( 60 % ) . However , views of ICE are evenly divided . About as many Americans view Immigration and Customs Enforcement favorably ( 44 % ) as unfavorably ( 47 % ) .
Muslims in Europe are most sharply distinguished from the majority populations on opinions about external issues – America , the war on terrorism , Iran , and the Middle East . European Muslims give the United States lower favorability ratings than do general publics in Europe and , in particular , they give the American people lower ratings . The war on terror is extremely unpopular among minority Muslim populations .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 54 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters think disagreements within the party will keep many Republicans from supporting Trump . Fewer ( 38 % ) think the party will solidly unite behind him .
Not surprisingly , economic inequality is a common concern for publics around the world , according to a Pew Research Center survey of 39 nations . Most people agree that the economic system favors the wealthy . Majorities in most countries say the gap between the rich and the poor has increased in the past five years . This attitude is particularly prevalent among those who live in advanced economies . And at least half the publics in most countries say the wealth gap is a very big problem in their nation , with developing economies expressing especially high levels of anxiety .
The Japanese public is generally critical of the national government 's response to the March 11 earthquake and tsunami . A major exception is the country 's Self Defense Force ( SDF ) , which earns widespread praise for its response to the disasters . More than nine-in-ten ( 95 % ) say the SDF has done a good job responding to the crisis , including 62 % who say the force has done a very good job . A smaller majority ( 54 % ) give Japan 's news organizations , such as television , radio , newspapers and magazines , favorable marks for their handling of the disaster . However , only 10 % describe the media 's response as very good . The public gives Prime Minister Naoto Kan 's handling of the earthquake and tsunami nearly identical marks to those of the government : 18 % say he has done a good job responding to the disaster , compared with 79 % who rate his efforts as poor . Again , only a minority of DPJ backers ( 39 % ) favorably assess Kan 's performance . Among supporters of the LDP , as well as backers of other parties or no party , many fewer ( 12 % and 15 % , respectively ) say Kan has performed well .
As the number of asylum seekers from Central America and elsewhere has surged at the U.S.-Mexico border , Hispanics are broadly critical of the federal government 's response . Around six-in-ten Hispanics ( 63 % ) say the U.S. government has done a somewhat ( 36 % ) or very bad ( 26 % ) job at dealing with the increased number of people seeking asylum at the nation 's southern border . But views on this question break sharply along party lines . Three-in-four Democrats ( 75 % ) say the U.S. government has done a bad job , while about half of Republicans ( 55 % ) say the government has done a good job .
Asked to state their views when they add up all the advantages and disadvantages of the internet for them personally , nine-in-ten Americans say the internet has mostly been a good thing for them . At the same time , 78 % believe it has been a mostly good thing for society . As has been true in previous Center surveys , the public is more likely to say the internet has been a bad thing for society than a bad thing for them personally ( 21 % vs. 10 % ) . This overall positive view of the internet is shared by vast majorities across each of the major demographic groups surveyed .
The vast majority of young unauthorized immigrants who applied have received relief from deportation and a temporary work permit . Through March 31 , 2014 , 86 % of 643,000 applications accepted have been approved , according to government data . When the program started , the Pew Research Center estimated that up to 950,000 young unauthorized immigrant youths were immediately eligible to apply for the new program , but not all those eligible have applied for the program . Each application carries a $ 465 fee .
Opinions on this question differ by race and ethnicity , partisanship and education . There also are substantial age differences : Adults under age 30 are the only age group in which a majority ( 58 % ) says the priority for critical care should be patients with the best chance of recovery . Those ages 30 to 49 are divided , while a majority of those 50 and older ( 57 % ) say the priority should be for patients most in need at the moment . Just over half of Americans reports being at least somewhat concerned that they could be hospitalized due to the coronavirus ( 55 % ) and about two-thirds express concern that they might unknowingly spread it to others ( 66 % ) . But there are stark racial and ethnic , income , age and partisan differences in the shares saying this . In contrast , younger adults are more concerned than older adults that they might spread the coronavirus to others without knowing they have it – 72 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say they are at least somewhat concerned this could happen , including 39 % who say they are very concerned . Among those 65 and older , 57 % say they are at least somewhat concerned about this , including a quarter who are very concerned .
Brazilians are also concerned about the impact that hosting the World Cup , which begins June 12 , will have on their country . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) think hosting the event is a bad thing for Brazil because it takes money away from schools , health care and other public services — a common theme in the protests that have swept the country since June 2013 . Just 34 % think the World Cup , which Brazil will host for the first time since 1950 and which could attract more than 3.5 million people to the nation 's twelve host cities , will create more jobs and help the economy .
With a median age of 36 , Buddhists are older than the world 's overall population , which has a median age of 30 , according to estimates as of 2015 . They also are older than people in other major religious groups , such as Muslims ( median of 24 ) , Hindus ( median of 27 ) and Christians ( median of 30 ) . Religiously unaffiliated adults have the same median age as Buddhists ( 36 ) .
It turns out that , in 2013 , people with adjusted gross incomes above $ 250,000 paid nearly half ( 48.9 % ) of the U.S. 's total individual income taxes , though they accounted for only 2.4 % of all returns filed .
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security data analysis shows the number of unaccompanied minors apprehended at the border who originated from Mexico , Honduras , El Salvador , Guatemala and other countries from Oct. 1 , 2012 through May 31 , 2014 . Although the specific reasons for migration to the U.S. may vary , Central Americans of all ages are fleeing some of the highest murder rates in the world , but females face additional danger .
Women are more likely than men ( 71 % vs. 60 % ) to see allegations of sexual misconduct as mainly reflective of broad societal problems . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 70 % ) are also somewhat more likely to say this than Republicans and Republican leaners ( 61 % ) .
As Germany expands its international role , the vast majority of the public ( 81 % ) is also feeling good about Merkel 's capacity to do the right thing on the world stage . However , demographic groups differ somewhat in their trust of the chancellor 's international leadership . Germans ages 50 and older have more confidence in Merkel than their younger counterparts and women are more likely to feel this way than men . Despite the chancellor 's center-right political orientation , those on the political left are actually 11 percentage points more likely than those on the right to say they have confidence in Merkel 's ability to deal with foreign affairs .
Democrats are positive about their presidential field , though less so than in 2008 . Overall , 64 % of Democratic voters have an excellent or good impression of the candidates running for the Democratic nomination . That is much higher than at similar points during the 1988 , 1992 and 2004 presidential campaigns . In January 2008 , however , 78 % had a positive view of the presidential candidates as a group .
About half ( 49 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely . Press coverage was divided between the oil leak ( 17 % of coverage ) and Elena Kagan 's nomination to the Supreme Court ( 13 % ) ; just 5 % of the public cited Kagan 's nomination as their top story of the week .
Democratic voters want the next president to continue Obama 's policies . In our most recent survey , 61 % of possible Democratic primary voters said they would be more likely to vote for a presidential candidate who offers programs similar to the Obama administration , and 60 % said they would be more likely to back a candidate who will compromise with Republicans . Smaller percentages expressed positive views about a candidate who wants to cut the size of big banks ( 48 % ) , expand trade agreements ( 45 % ) or back the nuclear agreement with Iran ( 41 % ) .
A global median of 70 % say China plays a more important role in the world than it did 10 years ago . Russia is a distant second in this assessment , with only 42 % saying that country is more important than it was a decade ago . A median of only 31 % believe the U.S. plays a more important role than it did a decade ago – less than half of the share who say this of China . Only 8 % of those surveyed say China plays a less important role than it did a decade ago , the lowest share across the seven countries tested . In the U.S. , 72 % believe China is more important now than it was a decade ago , while only 31 % of Americans say the same about their own country . While most agree that China 's global role has grown over the past decade , a lack of enthusiasm for Chinese world leadership persists . A median of 34 % of people around the world currently regard China as the world 's leading economic power – only slightly less than the 39 % who picked the U.S . Yet when thinking about the future , a 25-country median of 63 % say they prefer a world in which the U.S. is the leading power , while just 19 % would favor one in which China leads . Notably , four of the five countries most inclined to choose the U.S. over China are located in the Asia-Pacific region : 81 % of Japanese , 77 % of Filipinos , 73 % of South Koreans and 72 % of Australians all favor a future where Washington , not Beijing , leads .
Supporters of the right-leaning anti-immigration party AfD are more favorable toward the U.S. than those who do not support AfD ( 43 % vs. 26 % , respectively ) , and they are also more likely to express confidence in President Trump . People who look favorably on other German parties tested are more in line with the general population on U.S. image and confidence in Trump .
Age also is a factor in these views : By more than two-to-one ( 60 % vs. 26 % ) , those younger than 30 say they have been helped more than hurt financially by free trade agreements . Those in older age groups are more divided in their views of the personal impact of free trade agreements .
In all , Europe received some 2.5 million first-time asylum applications in 2015 and 2016 . The European country with the most applications in the past two years has been Germany , which received nearly half ( 45 % ) of these applications , followed by Hungary ( 8 % ) , Italy ( 8 % ) and Sweden ( 7 % ) . Both Italy and Greece continue to receive new arrivals on their shores , but Italy received more than Greece in 2016 .
Foreign trade also has been a contentious issue throughout the 2016 campaign . Currently , 45 % of voters say free trade agreements have been a good thing for the United States , while about as many ( 47 % ) say they have been a bad thing . Clinton supporters , by a wide margin ( 59 % to 32 % ) , view free trade agreements positively . An even larger majority of Trump supporters ( 68 % ) view them negatively . The pattern is similar in opinions about the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement ( TPP ) , though larger shares of voters do not offer an opinion about the TPP .
There is also a significant gender gap in attitudes on policing , with female officers less likely than their male counterparts to agree that aggressive tactics are sometimes necessary . Among female officers , 48 % agree that it is more useful to be aggressive than to be courteous in certain parts of the city , compared with 58 % of male officers . A third of female officers – but 46 % of male officers – agree that some people can only be brought to reason the hard , physical way .
Among Millennials who moved in 2016 , 22 % owned their own home after their move . In contrast , earlier generations of young movers were more likely to move into homes that they owned . For example , 35 % of early Boomer 25- to 35-year-olds who moved in the year prior to 1981 lived in an owner-occupied home .
Overall , Americans believe there should be a strong connection between local journalists and the communities they serve . But there are again some partisan differences on several measures of that connection . Republicans , for example , are somewhat less likely than Democrats to say local journalists are in touch with the communities they serve ( 61 % of Republicans say this vs. 67 % of Democrats ) and that local news media cover the area where they live ( 49 % vs. 54 % ) and have a lot of local influence ( 34 % vs. 40 % ) .
Congressional Democrats hold especially wide leads over Trump – of at least 20 percentage points – on their approaches to the environment , ethics in government , Medicare , health care and Social Security . The Democrats are preferred by smaller margins on foreign policy , immigration policy and gun policy .
European publics tend to want less immigration . A median of 51 % believe their country should allow fewer immigrants or none at all , while 35 % think the number of immigrants should stay about the same . Just 10 % want more .
Millennials also have more positive views of colleges and universities than those in older generations . Nearly three-quarters of Millennials ( 73 % ) say colleges and universities have a positive impact , compared with 64 % of Generation Xers , 59 % of Boomers and just 51 % of Silents .
Trust in government is more widespread – a 57 % majority expresses confidence in the national government to act in the country 's best interests , but only 6 % of Japanese have a lot of trust in the national leadership .
Among this group , Democrats and Democratic-leaning Millennials are far more likely than Republican and Republican-leaning Millennials to learn about the election via social media , the new analysis finds . Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Millennial Democrats who say they are very likely to participate in their state 's primary or caucus learned about the 2016 presidential election through a social networking site . This is starkly higher than the 50 % of Millennial Republicans who say they are very likely to participate . These party differences were not found in other generations .
Most Americans anticipate widespread job automation in the coming decades . About eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 82 % ) say that by 2050 , robots and computers will definitely or probably do much of the work currently done by humans , according to a December 2018 Pew Research Center survey . A smaller share of employed adults ( 37 % ) say robots or computers will do the type of work they do by 2050 .
Republicans and Democrats have similar levels of understanding about science , in contrast to the wide differences by education and racial and ethnic group . Republicans and independents who lean to the Republican Party average seven correct answers , while Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party average 6.6 . Those at the ends of the political spectrum – liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans – score higher than those in the middle , however . On average , liberal Democrats get 7.8 correct answers and conservative Republicans score 7.4 . In comparison , moderate and liberal Republicans get an average of 6.5 correct answers , while moderate and conservative Democrats get an average of 5.6 .
Asked if they feel that their phone represents `` freedom '' or `` a leash , '' 82 % of smartphone-owning seniors described their phone as freeing , compared with 64 % of those ages 18 to 29 . By contrast , 36 % of adult smartphone owners under the age of 30 described their phone as a leash , double the 18 % of adults ages 65 and older who chose this term to describe their phone .
An estimated 1.2 million Hispanics of Colombian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Colombians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Colombian origin ; this includes immigrants from Colombia and those who trace their family ancestry to Colombia . Colombians are the seventh-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Colombian-origin population has increased 148 % , growing from 502,000 to 1.2 million over the period . At the same time , the Colombian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 99 % , from 383,000 in 2000 to 763,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
When asked about the most important problem facing the U.S. , Hispanics most often cited issues related to immigration ( 18 % ) and the economy ( 17 % ) , according to a December survey of Latino adults . Smaller shares said race relations or racism ( 10 % ) , health care ( 7 % ) , dissatisfaction with government or politics ( 6 % ) , crime ( 6 % ) , political polarization or national divisions ( 5 % ) , gun control ( 5 % ) and President Donald Trump ( 5 % ) . While Hispanic Democrats and Hispanic Republicans both cited immigration and the economy among the most important problems facing the nation , their views differed on Trump . For Hispanic Democrats , Trump ( 8 % ) is cited about as often as race relations and racism ( 11 % ) as the most important problem facing the country . By contrast , far lower shares of Hispanic Republicans cited Trump ( 2 % ) as the nation 's top problem .
About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) of those surveyed said they worried a lot or a little about losing their job because of the economy , with 32 % saying they worried a lot . The joint Post-Miller Center poll said this figure surpassed the level of concern about losing jobs registered in more than a dozen surveys dating to the 1970s . The poll was conducted in September . The survey noted that 54 % of workers earning $ 35,000 or less worried a lot about losing their jobs compared to 37 % who had that concern in 1992 .
The Democratic Party now holds a slight edge over the GOP on taxes and advantages on several other issues . Currently , 43 % say the Democrats can better deal with taxes , while 36 % prefer the Republican Party . In April , the two parties ran about even on taxes .
Those who have higher incomes are more likely than those who are less well-off to say the U.S. is the world 's leading economic power ( 63 % vs. 53 % ) . The same is true of those who say their country 's economic situation is good compared with those who say the opposite ( 66 % vs. 52 % ) . And those who say the condition of the global economy is a major threat to the United States are less likely to see the U.S. as economically superior ( and more likely to name China ) than those who see it as a minor threat or no threat at all .2
While divided in their overall views , the public sees a more prominent role for the U.S. today than it did a few years ago . In 2016 , 46 % said the U.S. played a less important and powerful role as a world leader than it did 10 years prior ; smaller shares said its global role was as important ( 31 % ) or more important ( 21 % ) than it was a decade before . Republicans have become much more likely to say the U.S. plays a more important role as a world leader today than in the past . Overall , 45 % say the United States ' global role is more important today than it was a decade ago ; in 2016 , just 15 % of Republicans said this . This shift has been accompanied by a sharp decline in the share of Republicans who think the country 's global role is less important than a decade ago ; just 19 % say this today , compared with 65 % who said this in 2016 . Views among Democrats have moved in the opposite direction . Nearly half ( 49 % ) think the U.S. plays a less important leadership role today than it did 10 years ago , up from 29 % who said this in 2016 . Three-in-ten Democrats say the U.S. global leadership role is about as important as it was 10 years ago and 19 % think it is more important ; both shares are somewhat lower than they were in 2016 .
Only around a quarter of U.S. Hispanics ( 23 % ) have heard of the term `` Latinx , '' and just 3 % say they use it to describe themselves . The gender-neutral , pan-ethnic term , which is used to describe the nation 's Hispanic population , has gained traction in recent years among some corporations , local governments , universities and news and entertainment outlets . But relatively few Hispanics are aware of the term and only a small fraction use it to describe themselves . Among Hispanics aware of the term , 65 % say `` Latinx '' should not be used to describe the nation 's Hispanic or Latino population , while 33 % say it should .
Along with mobile phones , Americans own a range of other information devices . Nearly three-quarters of U.S. adults now own desktop or laptop computers , while roughly half now own tablet computers and roughly half own e-reader devices .
All of this adds up to generally less intense use of the internet by rural Americans than others . This shows up in several ways : the likelihood that a person goes online on a given day , the likelihood a person goes online several times on a typical day , and the number of online activities engaged in on the typical day .4
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY , conducted Dec. 3 - 8 among 2,001 adults , finds that 55 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters expect the GOP to do better than it has in recent elections , 33 % think it will do about the same , while just 5 % say it will do worse . Democrats and Democratic leaners are less confident : 43 % say the party will do better than in recent elections , 43 % about the same and 9 % worse . At this point in the 2006 election , Democrats were highly confident of victory . In December 2005 , 64 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters expected their party to do better in the 2006 midterms than in other recent elections ; just 16 % of Republican voters felt the same way about the GOP 's prospects .
Currently , whites remain divided in their views of Trump : Half ( 50 % ) approve of the job Trump is doing as president , while 45 % disapprove . Blacks ( 85 % ) and Hispanics ( 74 % ) overwhelmingly disapprove of Trump 's job performance .
In the wake of allegations that the Russian government used social media and other tactics to disrupt the 2016 United States presidential election , roughly seven-in-ten Russians believe their government did not try to influence the election . Only 15 % say their government did try to meddle , a new Pew Research Center survey shows .
About six-in-ten U.S. women today say `` feminist '' describes them very ( 19 % ) or somewhat ( 42 % ) well . But the degree to which women consider themselves feminist differs substantially by age , education and political party , according to the survey . Majorities of women across age groups say `` feminist '' describes them at least somewhat well , but those ages 50 to 64 are the least likely to say it describes them very well . Only 12 % in this age group say this , compared with 27 % of women ages 18 to 29 , 19 % of women ages 30 to 49 and 20 % of women 65 and older .
By 2015 , eligible immigrants from India had one of the higher naturalization rates ( 80 % ) due to a 12-percentage-point increase in its naturalization rate since 2005 . Only eligible immigrants from Ecuador ( 68 % in 2015 ) had as large an increase . This is a bigger increase than for U.S. immigrants overall , among whom naturalization rates jumped from 62 % in 2005 to 67 % in 2015 . ( Eligible immigrants from Vietnam , 86 % , and Iran , 85 % , had the highest naturalization rates of any group in 2015 . )
And an overwhelming majority of those who view more assistance as necessary think Congress and the president should act on it as soon as possible , rather than waiting until after the presidential inauguration in January . About two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) say a new aid package is necessary and that it be acted upon by the president and current Congress .
People in the region are split on how relations will change between the U.S. and their country . Many countries around the world do not expect relations between their country and the U.S. to change over the next few years with Trump as president . Globally , a median of 41 % expect relations to stay about the same and 32 % expect relations to get worse . Within the Asia-Pacific region , countries are split . About as many in South Korea say relations will stay about the same ( 45 % ) as say they expect relations to sour ( 43 % ) . Around a third ( 34 % ) in Japan say relations will stay about the same , compared with four-in-ten ( 41 % ) who expect relations will get worse and 17 % who say relations with the U.S. will get better . In the Philippines and Vietnam , people are more likely to say relations with the U.S. will stay the same or improve now that Trump is president .
For all journalism jobs , the Indiana research shows that the median income for women was $ 44,342 in 2012 or 83 % of what a male journalist brought home ( $ 53,600 ) . This pay gap has barely changed in the last two decades—it was 81 % in 2001 and 1991 . The numbers do represent something of an improvement from 1970 when women only made 64 % of a male journalist 's median salary , or from 1981 when women earned 71 cents for every dollar paid to men . A Pew Research Center analysis of data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics found that median hourly earnings for all women in 2012 amount to 84 % of what a man makes , which is on par with Indiana 's findings for journalists .
A median of 78 % of Europeans have a favorable opinion of Jews . This includes majority approval in all six nations surveyed . The strongest support is in France ( 92 % ) , while the weakest is in Poland ( 59 % ) . A median of 61 % voice a favorable attitude toward Muslims . This includes at least half in four of the six countries . The most favorable view of Muslims is in France ( 76 % ) .
The proportion of American adults with high-speed broadband service at home increased rapidly between 2000 and 2010 . In recent years , however , broadband adoption growth has been much more sporadic . Today , roughly three-quarters of American adults have broadband internet service at home .
While meeting partners through personal networks is still the most common kind of introduction , about one-in-ten partnered adults ( 12 % ) say they met their partner online . About a third ( 32 % ) of adults who are married , living with a partner or are in a committed relationship say friends and family helped them find their match . Smaller shares say they met through work ( 18 % ) , through school ( 17 % ) , online ( 12 % ) , at a bar or restaurant ( 8 % ) , at a place of worship ( 5 % ) or somewhere else ( 8 % ) . Meeting online is more common among younger adults and those who live in urban and suburban areas , as well as those who are lesbian , gay or bisexual ( LGB ) . About one-in-five partnered adults ages 18 to 29 ( 21 % ) say they met their partner online , compared with 15 % or fewer among their older counterparts . And while 28 % of partnered LGB adults say they met their partner online , 11 % of those who are straight say the same .
When asked about partnering on key issues , a majority of Germans say that the U.S. is not a partner on nearly every issue tested . Fewer than four-in-ten say that the U.S. is a partner on dealing with China , promoting free trade , protecting democracy and human rights , and protecting the environment . In fact , a mere 12 % of Germans say the U.S. is a partner on the environment .
U.S. Hindus have 15.7 years of schooling , compared with 12.7 years of schooling , on average , among Christians , the majority religious group in the U.S . In some cases , this difference in attainment between religious minorities and majorities is because members of the minority religious groups were selected under immigration policies favoring highly skilled applicants . In addition , it is often the well-educated who manage to overcome the financial and logistical challenges to successfully settling in another , far-off country .
The public places great importance on a broad range of democratic ideals and principles . Across most of the 10 democratic values asked about in the survey – including respecting the rights of all , ensuring that governmental branches keep one another from having too much power , and ensuring elected officials face serious consequences for misconduct – large majorities say these are very important for the country .
According to Comscore TV Essentials® data , viewership increased for the three major cable news channels ( CNN , Fox News and MSNBC ) in 2018 . The average combined audience ( defined as the average number of TVs tuned to a program throughout a time period ) for the prime news time slot ( 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. ) of these three networks increased 8 % , to about 1.25 million . ( Audience data for the three major financial networks – CNBC , Fox Business and Bloomberg – is not included here . ) The average audience for the daytime news time slot ( 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. ) increased by 5 % .
Compared with some of these other previous international disasters , interest in the typhoon is lower across all age groups . Among adults 65 and older , 45 % followed Haiyan very closely last week , compared to the 67 % who closely monitored the Japanese tsunami . Interest has been particularly low among adults younger than 40 , just 20 % of whom have followed the aftermath in the Philippines last week , compared to the 47 % who tracked news from Japan in 2011 .
As 2020 census workers begin knocking on the doors of millions of U.S. households that have not returned their census questionnaires , four-in-ten U.S. adults who have not yet responded say they would not be willing to answer their door , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Among adults in households that have not responded , 33 % say they are very willing to talk with a census worker who knocks on the door , and 27 % say they are somewhat willing . But 24 % say they are not too willing , and another 16 % say they are not willing at all .
On the minimum wage , a large majority of Hispanic voters ( 79 % ) say they favor raising it to $ 15 an hour , including more than half ( 56 % ) who say they strongly favor this change . Majorities in both parties favor raising the minimum wage , though Hispanic Democrats are much more likely than Hispanic Republicans to do so ( 88 % vs. 62 % , respectively ) .
Among the top five nations with which the U.S. runs a trade deficit , Germany has a $ 912 per capita trade advantage with the U.S. ( total deficit divided by Germany 's total population ) , compared with China 's $ 266 per capita imbalance . This is largely because China 's large workforce churns out a high volume of low-value products for export to the U.S. , while Germany 's smaller workforce largely produces high-value products , such as automobiles , to sell to Americans .
The vast majority of immigrants in the U.S. are in the country legally – but fewer than half of Americans know that 's the case . Lawful immigrants accounted for about three-quarters ( 76 % ) of all immigrants in the U.S. in 2016 . But in a survey conducted in June 2018 , only 45 % of Americans correctly said most immigrants are in the country legally . Around a third of U.S. adults ( 35 % ) incorrectly said that most immigrants are in the country illegally , while 6 % said about half of all immigrants are here illegally and half legally . Another 13 % did not provide a response .
Not only do veteran households fare better overall economically , households headed by racial or ethnic minority veterans and those with lower levels of education have significantly higher standards of living than their non-veteran counterparts . In 2017 , the median incomes of non-Hispanic black and Hispanic veteran households were more than $ 20,000 greater than those of black and Hispanic non-veteran households . Among non-Hispanic whites , by comparison , the gap in median income between households headed by veterans and non-veterans was only about $ 5,100 . Income differences between veteran and non-veteran households are also large when examined by education level . The median income is roughly $ 20,000 higher for households headed by a veteran with a high school diploma , compared with non-veteran households with the same level of education . As education increases , the income gap between the two groups decreases to only about $ 2,500 .
A sizable share of all black people ( 77 % ) also say the Bible is the word of God ( as opposed to having been `` written by men '' ) , compared with 57 % of whites and 65 % of Hispanics . Among those in the historically black Protestant tradition , 85 % say they believe the Bible is the word of God , a level more comparable to that seen among those in the evangelical Protestant tradition ( 88 % ) , Mormons ( 91 % ) and Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 94 % ) than among Catholics ( 64 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 62 % ) .
The terms Hispanics in the United States use to describe themselves can provide a direct look at how they view their identity and how the strength of immigrant ties influences the ways they see themselves . About half of Hispanic adults say they most often describe themselves by their family 's country of origin or heritage , using terms such as Mexican , Cuban , Puerto Rican or Salvadoran , while another 39 % most often describe themselves as `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' the pan-ethnic terms used most often to describe this group in the U.S . The use of these terms varies across immigrant generations and reflects their diverse experiences . More than half ( 56 % ) of foreign-born Latinos most often use the name of their origin country to describe themselves , a share that falls to 39 % among the U.S.-born adult children of immigrant parents ( i.e. , the second generation ) and 33 % among third- or higher-generation Latinos .
The relatively young age at which rural gun owners first acquired a gun is perhaps not surprising : Americans who grew up in rural areas are more likely to have grown up with guns in their homes . About seven-in-ten Americans who grew up in a rural area ( 72 % ) say there were guns in their household growing up , compared with half ( 52 % ) of those who grew up in a small town and 39 % of those who grew up in a city .
Led by an increase in mortgage borrowing , overall household debt increased by $ 241 billion to $ 11.52 trillion during the last quarter of 2013 — 2.1 % higher than it had been for the previous three months , according to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York . The last time there had been that big of an increase from quarter to quarter had been in 2007 .
The survey finds that public 's most closely followed story , for the second week in a row , is news about the child sex abuse scandal at Penn State University ( 27 % most closely ) ; 15 % tracked news about the economy most closely and 13 % cited news about the presidential candidates as their top story . Just 3 % say they followed news about the super committee most closely . The deficit panel also drew relatively little news coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . News about the super committee accounted for 4 % of all coverage last week , much less than the Penn State scandal ( 15 % ) , the 2012 elections ( 12 % ) or the Occupy Wall Street protests ( 13 % ) .
There has long been a sizable gender gap in leaned party identification . Men are divided ( 44 % Democratic , 43 % Republican ) . In 2008 , however , Democrats held a nine-point lead in leaned party identification among men ( 47 % to 38 % ) . Since 1990 , women have been consistently more likely than men to identify as Democrats or lean Democratic ( 52 % to 36 % in 2014 ) . Back to top
Half say using military force against countries that may seriously threaten the U.S. – but have not attacked it – can often ( 12 % ) or sometimes ( 38 % ) be justified , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October . About as many ( 48 % ) say such pre-emptive use of military force can rarely ( 28 % ) or never ( 20 % ) be justified . Today , the public is somewhat more likely to express reservations about the use of pre-emptive force than it was eight years ago , when Pew Research Center last asked the question . In November 2009 , during President Barack Obama 's first year in office and amid debate about drawing down U.S. troop levels in Iraq , 52 % of Americans said the use of pre-emptive military force by the U.S. was sometimes or often justified , compared with 41 % who said it was rarely or never justified ( 8 % did not offer a view ) . The share who say pre-emptive military force is rarely or never justified is up 7 percentage points from 2009 .
Other news stories last week garnered less interest . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 16 % ) closely followed news about recreational marijuana shops that opened legally in Colorado , while 13 % followed news about a research ship that was trapped in ice off Antarctica . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) followed either violence in Syria or the two terrorist bombings that struck Russia .
When it comes to trusting the UK government , people in Britain are evenly divided . Roughly half say that they trust the national government a lot or somewhat , and virtually the same number say they trust the government not much or not at all . Only 14 % of the British public trusts the government a lot , while two-in-ten say they do not trust the government at all .
According to the Pew Hispanic Center 's National Survey of Latinos , more than half ( 52 % ) of Latinos ages 16 to 25 identify themselves first by their family 's country of origin , be it Mexico , Cuba , the Dominican Republic , El Salvador or any of more than a dozen other Spanish-speaking countries . An additional 20 % generally use the terms `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino '' first when describing themselves . Only about one-in-four ( 24 % ) generally use the term `` American '' first . Among the U.S.-born children of immigrants , `` American '' is somewhat more commonly used as a primary term of self-identification . Even so , just 33 % of these young second generation Latinos use American first , while 21 % refer to themselves first by the terms Hispanic or Latino , and the plurality—41 % —refer to themselves first by the country their parents left in order to settle and raise their children in this country .
Online news that comes via emails and texts from friends or family is the type of news encounter most likely to result in a follow-up action . Among the five pathways studied , news instances spurred by emails and texts from friends or family elicited the most activity ; nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of these instances were acted upon in some way . That outpaced social media and direct visits to a news organization 's website , where a follow-up action occurred in about half of news instances ( 53 % and 47 % , respectively ) . Overall , talking with someone offline , whether in person or over the phone , was the most common action taken with digital news .
Mobile phone users see a mix of benefits and pitfalls related to their devices . Mobile phone users in each of the 11 countries surveyed are more likely to say their phone is something that frees them rather than something that ties them down . Meanwhile , a larger share of mobile phone users in seven countries believe their phone helps them save time rather than waste time – although in certain countries like the Philippines , a larger share view their phones as a time waster . People in these countries are also somewhat divided when assessing how reliant they are on their mobile device . Kenyans , South Africans , Jordanians , Tunisians and Lebanese who use a mobile phone are more likely to say their phone is something they could n't live without . But in the six other countries , larger shares say they do n't always need their phone .
Almost two-thirds of Americans say they are very ( 18 % ) or somewhat ( 47 % ) confident in the government 's ability to deal with the swine flu ; the remaining one third is not too ( 19 % ) or not at all ( 15 % ) confident in the government 's ability to handle the virus . People are less confident in the media 's ability to accurately report on the swine flu : Just more than half are very confident ( 17 % ) or somewhat confident ( 36 % ) in the press ' ability to cover swine flu , while 46 % have more doubts .
Younger adults do n't follow election and pandemic news as closely as older ones , but that gap vanishes with the George Floyd demonstrations . Only about one-third of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 35 % ) are following news about the 2020 presidential candidates very or fairly closely , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted June 4 - 10 as part of the American News Pathways project . That compares with 46 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 60 % of those ages 50 to 64 and 74 % of those 65 and older . There is a similar pattern with the coronavirus pandemic . While 75 % of 18- to 29-year-olds follow that news very or fairly closely , that is less than the three older groups , where that number ranges from 83 % to 94 % . That gap closes when it comes to coverage of the protests following the police killing of George Floyd . About eight-in-ten of the youngest adults ( 83 % ) follow that news very or fairly closely – roughly on par with every other age group except those 65 and older ( 90 % ) .
Views of the U.S. are favorable on balance , but concerns are evident . Across the 25 countries surveyed , a median of 50 % have a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while 43 % have an unfavorable view . Likewise , a median of 51 % say the U.S. respects the personal freedoms of its people , compared with 37 % who say it does not . However , there is international concern about America 's role in world affairs . Large majorities say the U.S. does n't take the interests of other countries into account when making foreign policy decisions . Also , a global median of 37 % believe the U.S. is doing less to help address major global problems than it used to .
News reports about the state of the economy elicit a variety of emotions from the public . Nearly half of Americans ( 49 % ) say they feel angry when seeing or hearing reports about the economy , while 43 % say they feel scared . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say they feel confused by economic news and about as many report feeling depressed ( 35 % ) . Just 30 % say they feel optimistic when they see or hear news reports about the economy , while 69 % say they do not feel optimistic .
More than six-in-ten Americans ( 63 % ) say they prefer news sources with no particular point of view , while 29 % prefer sources that have a political point of view . The preference for news without a political point of view is even stronger when it comes to online news : 74 % of those who get news online want it to come without a political point of view , while just 19 % prefer online sources that have a point of view .
One factor in men 's optimism is their rosy view of what lies ahead for their children . In 27 of 44 countries men are more likely than women to think that the next generation will have a better life . The men in West Africa are the most confident about this . The least confident about the next generation 's prospects are Guatemalan men ( 75 % think children will be worse off ) Japanese women ( 71 % ) and German women ( 68 % ) . Strikingly , more than half the men in Western Europe , Eastern and Southern Africa and the Conflict Area plus more than half the women in North America , Western Europe and Eastern and Southern Africa think the future will be worse for children . The greatest disparity in views about children 's future is in Canada , where 45 % of men but only 24 % of women think children will have it better .
And with this turnaround , British support for remaining in the European Union has picked up . By 50 % to 41 % , the British now want to remain in the EU . In 2013 the public was divided , with 46 % wanting to stay and an equal share wanting to leave .
The public is generally positive about the outcome of last week 's midterm elections . Yet most Americans think that neither Democratic congressional leaders nor Donald Trump will be successful in getting their policies passed into law during the next two years . The new national survey from Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 7 - 13 among 9,451 adults , finds that 61 % say Democratic leaders in Congress will be unsuccessful in getting their programs passed into law – but about as many ( 63 % ) say Trump will be unsuccessful in getting his programs enacted . While the Democratic Party gained a majority in the House , but not the Senate , in the Nov. 6 elections , Democrats are divided over the party 's legislative prospects : 49 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say Democratic leaders will be successful , while an identical share says they wo n't . Republicans and Republican leaners are somewhat more positive about Trump 's prospects , with 55 % saying he will be successful in getting his programs into law .
Women account for more than a quarter ( 28 % ) of the 67 judges President Donald Trump has successfully appointed to the federal courts since taking office . That 's well below the share appointed by Barack Obama – whose 324 judicial appointees were a record 42 % female – but higher than the share appointed by any other Republican president , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Federal Judicial Center . In both parties , presidents have appointed a growing share of female judges in recent decades . Women represented 22 % of the 324 judges appointed by Republican George W. Bush during his eight years in office , 19 % of the 188 judges appointed by George H.W . Bush and 8 % of the 364 judges appointed by Ronald Reagan . Among recent Democratic presidents , Obama 's total exceeded the share appointed by Bill Clinton ( 28 % of 372 judges ) and Jimmy Carter ( 16 % of 261 judges ) . Trump 's numbers are as of Sept. 30 and will change as the Senate moves to confirm more of his pending judicial nominees and as he identifies new nominees for vacant positions .
In early March , 66 % of Democrats said that the country is headed in the right direction . That compared with 35 % of independents and just 11 % of Republicans . The partisan differences were much smaller in views of national satisfaction . Slightly more than a quarter of Democrats ( 27 % ) said they were satisfied with the way things are going , compared with 20 % of independents and 11 % of Republicans .
By contrast , nearly identical percentages of Democrats ( 56 % ) , Republicans ( 57 % ) and independents ( 59 % ) have a favorable opinion of their state 's government . Similarly , local governments receive positive ratings from 67 % of Democrats , 63 % of Republicans and 60 % of independents . Read more
The already considerable amount of time devoted to sports , weather and traffic on local newscasts rose even higher among the stations studied in the Pew Research Center 's latest State of the News media report . Airtime on those subjects increased from 32 % 2005 to 40 % in 2012 . The biggest increase came in the airtime devoted to sports , to 12 % from 7 % . The traffic and weather components of the newscast increased by a smaller percentage ( to 29 % from 25 % ) , but four in ten of the newscasts examined in the study led with a weather story . The topics people seek out the most on local TV news — weather and breaking news ( and to a lesser extent , traffic ) — are ripe for replacement by any number of Web- and mobile-based outlets . While many stations ramped up their digital news offerings in the past year , they are late to the digital game .
Across the 20 publics surveyed , environmental concerns extend beyond the issue of climate change : Large majorities rate a host of environmental issues as big problems , including air and water pollution , overburdened landfills , deforestation and the loss of plant and animal species . In general terms , environmental concerns trump economic considerations : When asked to choose , a median of 71 % said environmental protection should be the greater priority even if it caused slower economic growth and loss of jobs ; a much smaller median of 25 % said creating jobs should be the priority ( the survey was conducted before the coronavirus pandemic and resultant economic strains took hold in many of these publics ) . Consistent with environmental worries , majorities across all 20 publics say the more important energy priority should be increasing production of renewable energy such as wind and solar sources over increasing production of oil , natural gas and coal ( median of 86 % to 10 % ) . Views about specific energy sources underscore this pattern with strong majorities in favor of expanding the use of wind , solar and hydropower sources and much less support , by comparison , for energy sources such as oil or coal . Views on expanding natural gas fall somewhere in between .
But the perception that communities recycle `` most types of items '' obscures the markedly different rates at which various types of waste actually are recycled or composted . According to our analysis of the EPA data , 99 % of lead-acid batteries ( the sort found in cars and trucks ) , 88.5 % of corrugated cardboard boxes , and 67 % of newspapers , directories and the like were recycled as of 2013 . On the other hand , only 28.2 % of high-density polyethylene containers ( such as milk jugs ) were recycled , as were 13.5 % of plastic bags and wraps and only 6.2 % of small appliances . Three-fifths ( 60.2 % ) of yard trimmings were composted , but just 5 % of food waste was .
There are differences in the amount of online instruction parents say their children have received during the coronavirus-related closures . Some 43 % of parents say their children 's K-12 school has provided a lot of online instruction since it closed , while 35 % say the school has provided some . ( Online instruction can include online assignments , meetings with teachers or instructional videos . ) There are also differences in how much instruction parents themselves – or other adults in the household – are providing to their children during the outbreak . About seven-in-ten parents say they or another adult have provided a lot ( 25 % ) or some ( 44 % ) instruction to their children beyond what is being provided by the school .
In addition to exploring global views of President Trump , this survey also examines attitudes toward three other major leaders on the international stage . The results demonstrate that Trump is not the only world leader in whom global publics lack confidence . Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin also get poor marks , though neither is rated as negatively as the U.S. president . Across the 37 nations surveyed , a median of 28 % voice confidence in Xi , while 27 % feel this way about Putin .
Currently , slightly more voters have a favorable ( 50 % ) than unfavorable ( 45 % ) opinion of Barack Obama . Though there are still more than three months to go before the election , Obama 's current favorability ratings compare poorly with the final pre-election ratings for previous Democratic candidates . Not since Michael Dukakis in 1988 has a Democratic candidate gone into the election with favorability ratings as low as Obama 's are today . Romney faces a more daunting challenge , as more voters say they have an unfavorable ( 52 % ) than favorable ( 37 % ) opinion of him . The only prior presidential candidates to be viewed negatively going into the election were George H.W . Bush in October 1992 and Bob Dole in October 1996 .
Of course , it 's one thing to say your representative does n't deserve to be re-elected , or even that you 're open to voting him or her out , and actually doing so . Historically , Americans have been more favorably disposed toward their own representatives than to Congress as a whole ( a phenomenon dubbed `` Fenno 's Paradox , '' after eminent political scientist Richard Fenno ) . That disjuncture that has been reflected in typically high re-election rates . On average , in each of the seven House elections between 1978 and 1990 ( inclusive ) , fewer than 20 representatives were defeated for re-election .
We estimate that the percentage of households that are wireless only is now about 20 % , and it 's been growing at the rate of about 2 percentage points every six months .
Overall , the share of Americans who say gun laws in the U.S. should be made stricter has increased from 52 % in 2017 to 60 % this year , according to a survey conducted in September . The share of those saying gun laws should be less strict has dropped from 18 % in 2017 to 11 % today .
1 Only about 56 % of students earn degrees within six years . The National Student Clearinghouse , a nonprofit verification and research organization , tracked 2.4 million first-time college students who enrolled in fall 2007 with the intent of pursuing a degree or certificate . The completion rate was highest ( 72.9 % ) among students who started at four-year , private , nonprofit schools , and lowest ( 39.9 % ) among those who started at two-year public institutions . 2 Business is still the most common major . According to the National Center for Education Statistics , about a fifth ( 20.5 % ) of the 1.79 million bachelor 's degrees conferred in 2011 - 12 were in business . Business has been the single most common major since 1980 - 81 ; before that , education led the way . The least common bachelor 's degrees , according to the NCES , were in library science ( 95 conferred in 2011 - 12 ) , military technologies and applied sciences ( 86 ) and precision production ( 37 ) .
And while it 's no surprise that more conflict-averse people are less likely to be willing to share their political views in social settings with people who hold different views , the magnitude of some of these gaps was striking . For example , 76 % of those with a high level of comfort with conflict said they would share their feelings about Trump in a social situation with people who held opposing views ; only 26 % of those with a low level of comfort with conflict said the same .
Immigration legislation is stalled in the House , but the public continues to broadly support a path to legalization for undocumented immigrants . At the same time , however , Americans are evenly divided over the growing number of undocumented immigrants who have been deported from the U.S. in recent years , with as many viewing this as a good thing as a bad thing ( 45 % each ) .
About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of Trump supporters who say they are very conservative express a preference for voting in person on Nov. 3 , while 19 % say they would like to cast their ballots in person before Election Day and just 11 % say they would like to vote by mail . While most liberal and moderate Trump voters also express a preference for in-person voting , they are about twice as likely as very conservative Trump voters to prefer to vote by mail this year ( 22 % vs. 11 % ) .
In the Middle East , Saudi Arabia receives mixed marks when it comes to respecting the rights of its citizens . Only in Jordan ( 60 % ) and Egypt ( 59 % ) do clear majorities say the Saudi government protects the personal freedoms of its people . Elsewhere in the region , half or more take the opposite view . However , in countries outside the Middle East that are home to substantial or majority Muslim populations , Saudi Arabia is generally given credit for protecting the liberties of its citizens . Half or more in Pakistan ( 65 % ) , Senegal ( 63 % ) , Nigeria ( 55 % ) , and Indonesia ( 52 % ) say the Saudi regime protects personal freedoms within its borders . By contrast , opinion of Saudi Arabia 's record on civil rights is highly critical in Europe , where as many as eight-in-ten or more in Spain ( 86 % ) , Greece ( 84 % ) , and France ( 81 % ) think the Saudi government does not protect the personal freedoms of its people . In North America , 74 % of Canadians and 72 % of Americans agree , as do 71 % of Israelis .
A quarter of lower-income teens do not have access to a home computer . One-in-four teens in households with an annual income under $ 30,000 lack access to a computer at home , compared with just 4 % of those in households earning over $ 75,000 , according to the 2018 survey . There are also differences by race and ethnicity . Hispanic teens were especially likely to say they do not have access to a home computer : 18 % said this , compared with 9 % of white teens and 11 % of black teens .
As Latino attitudes toward the number of immigrants living in the U.S. have changed , an age gap in these views has emerged . In the 2018 survey , Latinos ages 18 to 29 were 13 percentage points less likely than those 30 and older to say there are too many immigrants in the U.S . In 2002 , by comparison , there was virtually no age gap .
Most Americans say they have achieved the `` American dream '' or are on their way to achieving it . Just 17 % of Americans say the American dream is `` out of reach '' for their family , according to an August 2017 survey .
While Brits remain divided on whether leaving the EU is right for their country , key EU members outside of the UK are resolute : A majority in every member state surveyed says Brexit would be a bad thing .
Government and politics seen as working better locally than nationally . Far more Americans have a favorable opinion of their local government ( 67 % ) than of the federal government ( 35 % ) . In addition , there is substantial satisfaction with the quality of candidates running for Congress and local elections in recent elections . That stands in contrast with views of the recent presidential candidates ; just 41 % say the quality of presidential candidates in recent elections has been good .
Although Lebanese Muslims consider Islam an important part of their lives , they place less emphasis on their faith than do Muslims elsewhere . In the six predominantly Islamic countries surveyed , Muslims in Lebanon are the least likely to say religion is very important in their life — just over half ( 54 % ) say religion is very important , compared with 69 % of Muslims in Turkey , 86 % in Jordan , and more than 90 % in Indonesia , Pakistan , and Morocco .
Political observers have suggested that Prime Minister May called early elections in order to increase the number of Conservative Party seats in Parliament , thus strengthening her ability to negotiate with the EU over Brexit terms . Currently the British government receives mixed reviews from average citizens : 49 % of Brits say they can trust the national government somewhat or a lot , and 48 % say they have little or no confidence in the government to do the right thing for the UK .
A majority of Americans ( 63 % ) say that climate change is affecting their local community a great deal or some . Fewer ( 37 % ) say climate change is impacting their own community not too much or not at all . The share who see at least some local impact from climate change is about the same as it was last fall ( 62 % ) .
More than nine-in-ten Americans ( 93 % ) could identify Arnold Schwarzenegger as the California governor or a former action-movie star – both responses were counted as correct in the scoring . An equally large proportion of the public identified Hillary Clinton as a U.S. senator , a former first lady , a Democratic leader , or a candidate for president . Clear majorities can also correctly identify Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice ( 65 % ) and Sen. Barack Obama ( 61 % ) . House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is recognized by about half of the public ( 49 % ) .
A 63 % majority of women say obstacles continue to make it harder for women than men today , compared with 34 % who say they are largely gone . Among men , 41 % think women still face obstacles that make it harder to get ahead , while 56 % say those challenges have mostly been eliminated . ( For more on women in society , see the Center 's report `` Women and Leadership , '' released last year . )
The Census Bureau innovations are driven by the same forces afflicting all organizations that do survey research . People are increasingly reluctant to answer surveys , and the cost of collecting their data is rising . From 1970 to 2010 , the bureau 's cost to count each household quintupled , to $ 98 per household in 2010 dollars , according to the GAO . The Census Bureau estimates that its innovations would save $ 5.2 billion compared with repeating the 2010 census design , so the 2020 census would cost a total of $ 12.5 billion , close to 2010 's $ 12.3 billion price tag ( both in projected 2020 dollars ) .
More than any other state , Hawaii stands out when it comes to its racial and ethnic diversity . The Rainbow State has never had a white majority . In fact , non-Hispanic whites , the largest group in most states , account for only 23 % of the population , according to 2013 census figures .
In the summer , before Ginsburg 's death , seven-in-ten U.S. adults said they had a favorable view of the Supreme Court . That included three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and two-thirds of Democrats and Democratic leaners , according to an online survey using the Center 's American Trends Panel . The overall share of Americans with a favorable opinion of the court in August 2020 was little changed from a year earlier , when 69 % expressed a positive view . But the share of Republicans with a favorable opinion declined 10 percentage points in that span ( from 85 % to 75 % ) , and the share of Democrats with a positive view rose 10 points ( from 57 % to 67 % ) .
Independents who lean to one of the two parties are often much closer to partisans in their views than they are to independents who lean to the other party . For example , while 34 % of independents as a whole said they approved of the way Donald Trump was handling his job as president in a March Pew Research Center survey , the gap between independents who lean to the GOP and those who lean to the Democratic Party ( 73 % vs. 9 % ) was nearly as wide as the gap between Republicans and Democrats ( 85 % vs. 8 % ) .
Opinions are more divided in Jordan and Nigeria . Half of Jordanian Muslims favor gender segregation and 44 % oppose it . Among Nigerian Muslims , nearly the same percentage favor making segregation of men and women in the workplace the law in their country ( 49 % ) as oppose it ( 48 % ) .
Those most interested in technology stand out for citing science news ' connection with their jobs . About half ( 52 % ) of employed Americans who are most interested in technology said they follow science news because it is related to their work , at least 11 % higher than any other group .
That is a more positive verdict from the public than congressional Republicans received after their 2014 and 2010 victories , when majorities said they were not keeping campaign promises ( 65 % said this in May 2015 , 52 % in April 2011 ) . After the Democrats won Congress in 2006 , the public was divided on whether they kept their promises ( 40 % said they did , 38 % said they did not ) . Neither party has come close to the positive views of the GOP after they gained control of Congress in the 1994 midterm . In April 1995 , 59 % of the public said Republicans were keeping their campaign promises ; just 31 % said they were not .
More voters say they know a lot about where Clinton stands on important issues than say the same about Trump . About half ( 53 % ) say they know a lot about Clinton 's positions ; by comparison , fewer ( 43 % ) are confident they know where Trump stands . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are just as likely to say they know a lot about where Clinton stands ( 50 % ) as they are about Trump ( 53 % ) . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , on the other hand , say they know much more about Clinton 's positions ( 57 % say a lot ) than Trump 's ( 36 % ) .
Argentines express little trust in elected officials and public institutions . One-in-five ( 20 % ) agree that the state is run for the benefit of all people and that most elected officials care what people like themselves think ( 21 % ) . Adults ages 18 to 29 are less likely than those 50 and older to agree that the government is run for the benefit of all people ( 16 % vs. 26 % ) . Those with a favorable view of Cambiemos are also more likely to agree that the state works for everyone ( 39 % ) than those with unfavorable views ( 13 % ) . Despite the dissatisfaction with aspects of the political system , Argentines are optimistic about democratic participation – 55 % say that voting gives people like themselves some say in how the government runs things .
With the expectation that a far larger share of voters will cast their ballots by mail than in past elections comes the prospect that counting those ballots may take substantially longer than in past years . But about half of registered voters ( 52 % ) say it is very important that Americans know who won the election with a day or two of Election Day , and 82 % say this is at least somewhat important . By contrast , there is far less uniformity when it comes to the importance of people who are ineligible to vote being prevented from voting . While clear majorities of both coalitions say this is at least somewhat important ( 93 % of Trump supporters , 78 % of Biden voters ) , Trump supporters are much more likely to consider this very important : 86 % say this , compared with about half ( 49 % ) of Biden backers . Trump supporters also are substantially more likely than Biden supporters to say that knowing the winner of the election within a few days is important . More than nine-in-ten Trump supporters ( 94 % ) say it is at least somewhat important that the winner of the election be known within a day or two of the polls closing , including 69 % who say this is very important . While most Biden supporters ( 73 % ) say this at least somewhat important , only 39 % say it is very important .
These country-level differences in regular Twitter activity are also clearly visible in the median number of tweets produced across the six months of the study . By this measure , U.S. and UK lawmakers are more active tweeters compared with their peers , posting a median of 79 and 70 monthly tweets per legislator , respectively . Those in New Zealand tweet the least , with just 15 monthly tweets per legislator at the median .
One factor in men 's optimism is their rosy view of what lies ahead for their children . In 27 of 44 countries men are more likely than women to think that the next generation will have a better life . The men in West Africa are the most confident about this . The least confident about the next generation 's prospects are Guatemalan men ( 75 % think children will be worse off ) Japanese women ( 71 % ) and German women ( 68 % ) . Strikingly , more than half the men in Western Europe , Eastern and Southern Africa and the Conflict Area plus more than half the women in North America , Western Europe and Eastern and Southern Africa think the future will be worse for children . The greatest disparity in views about children 's future is in Canada , where 45 % of men but only 24 % of women think children will have it better .
Moderate and liberal Republicans are far more likely than conservative Republicans – who make up about two-thirds of all Republicans and GOP leaners – to say Trump has probably done something illegal or unethical . A majority of moderate and liberal Republicans ( 57 % ) say it is definite or probable that Trump has behaved unethically ; fewer conservative Republicans ( 36 % ) say the same .
Huckabee stands apart from the field when it comes to social issues . He is named by 27 % of likely voters as best able to handle social issues like abortion and gay rights , far more than any other candidate . On the other hand , Huckabee is the choice of relatively few as best able to deal with foreign policy and security issues ( 11 % say he is best able to handle Iraq , 11 % Iran and 10 % terrorism ) . Despite trailing Romney and Huckabee in the horse race , Giuliani is named by a plurality of Iowa Republican voters as best able to deal with terrorism ( 26 % ) and Iran ( 22 % ) , and he is in a virtual tie with Romney on Iraq ( 19 % vs. 20 % ) . And Giuliani is mentioned by fully 38 % of Iowa voters as the candidate with the best chance of defeating a Democrat next November , though as noted earlier most voters say they prefer a candidate closest to them on the issues rather than the most electable candidate .
Even more dramatically , the ethnic composition of immigrants has changed . In 1960 , the overwhelming share of immigrants were of European origin and few were born in Latin America and the Caribbean or Asia . By 2013 , a census survey found half of immigrants were Latin American/Caribbean and 27 % were Asian , while the European share of the immigrant population had fallen to a mere 13 % .
In assessing Trump 's ideology , identical shares of Trump and Clinton supporters ( 45 % each ) say he has conservative views on most or almost all issues . But more Clinton than Trump supporters say Trump is conservative on almost all issues ( 21 % vs. 10 % ) .
In a 2004 Pew Hispanic Center/Kaiser Family Foundation survey on education , for example , immigrant Latinos took a much more favorable view of public schools in their communities than did either non-Hispanic blacks or whites . Also , the attitudes of Hispanic immigrants were much more positive than those of native-born Latinos . In addition to the immigrants ' basic optimism , this positive valuation could derive from two factors : newcomers are often comparing U.S. schools to those in their native lands , and they have also had less opportunity to be disappointed by their experiences here . ( Hispanic school children have much lower high school completion rates than do whites or blacks . )
Like Muslims elsewhere in Europe , the French also worry more generally about the future of Muslims in their country — though , in this case , Muslims in France are significantly less worried than those in Great Britain . A majority ( 57 % ) is also at least somewhat concerned about the declining importance of religion among their co-religionists in France , though again , British Muslims are more troubled on this score with 73 % sharing the worry . ( In this , as in other questions in the survey , no significant difference is seen among the responses of French Muslims of Algerian , Moroccan or other ethnicity . )
And the public , by roughly two-to-one ( 61 % to 30 % ) , believes that Congress – not the president – should have final authority over whether the U.S. conducts airstrikes in Syria . Fully 75 % of Republicans and 64 % of independents say Congress should be the ultimate arbiter of whether the U.S. launches airstrikes . Democrats are divided , with 47 % saying Congress should have final authority and 45 % the president .
Sanders supporters stand out for civil liberties concerns . Half of Americans say their bigger concern about government anti-terrorism policies is that they have not gone far enough to adequately protect the country ; 35 % are more concerned that they have gone too far in restricting civil liberties . Large majorities of Republican voters , regardless of their primary preference , say their bigger concern is that anti-terror policies have not gone far enough to protect the country . On the Democratic side , supporters of the two candidates differ in their views . Among Sanders supporters , 51 % say their bigger concern is that U.S. policies have gone too far in restricting civil liberties , while 33 % say they have not gone far enough in protecting the U.S. Opinion among Clinton supporters is reversed ( 51 % not gone far enough , 35 % too far ) .
Across the five Asia-Pacific countries surveyed , cyberattacks , climate change and ISIS are all mentioned as top concerns by at least one country . In Japan , it is cyberattacks , while in South Korea and Australia , it is climate change . ISIS is named as the top threat in the Philippines and Indonesia , nations where Islamic extremist violence has occurred frequently over the past 15 years . Asia-Pacific publics also express concern about North Korea 's nuclear program and China 's power and influence . In South Korea , more rate China 's power as a major threat ( 82 % ) than the DPRK 's nuclear program ( 67 % ) . Since 2013 , concern about North Korea has fallen substantially in South Korea , from 82 % in 2013 to 67 % in 2018 . Over that time , perceptions of China as a threat have grown in four of the nations surveyed in the region , particularly in Australia ( up 20 points ) and Indonesia ( up 16 ) .
Some lower-income teens say they lack resources to complete schoolwork at home . In a 2018 Center survey , about one-in-five teens ages 13 to 17 ( 17 % ) said they are often or sometimes unable to complete homework assignments because they do not have reliable access to a computer or internet connection . Black teens and those living in lower-income households were more likely to say they can not complete homework assignments for this reason .
11 Death may not be the most comfortable topic to ponder , but 37 % of Americans say they have given a great deal of thought to their own wishes for end-of-life medical treatment – up from 28 % in 1990 . A third ( 35 % ) say they have put their wishes in writing . At the same time , however , about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they 've given no thought or not very much thought to their wishes .
The survey also finds that the current U.S. government policy of banning the payment of ransom money for hostages held by terrorist groups has widespread approval . Though the policy has come under some recent criticism , 70 % approve of the current U.S. government policy while just 25 % disapprove .
The share who say climate change is a major threat in each country ranges from 59 % in Australia to 83 % in France , Spain and Italy . Two-thirds or more say the same in Canada , Germany , the Netherlands , Belgium , the UK , Japan and South Korea .
Opinions of Iranian President Hassan Rouhani are generally similar to opinions of Assad . Fewer than 10 % in both Israel and Jordan hold a positive view of the Iranian president .
The degree to which civic division has changed since the coronavirus emerged is itself a divisive question . When asked if their country is now more united or more divided than before the coronavirus outbreak , people in many countries are split , with a 14-country median of 46 % saying their country is more united and 48 % saying their country is more divided . ( Since the onset of the coronavirus , countries in the survey have also experienced the effects of a global recession and protests related to the death of George Floyd , a Black American killed by a White police officer in May , among other events . )
Survey questions also probed for the use of non-voice applications on cell phones . Respondents were asked specifically about whether they access the internet and whether they use email , texting or instant messaging from a cell phone . The findings reveal a mixed pattern of non-voice cell phone application use across ethnic and racial groups . Hispanics are less likely than whites to use any non-voice applications on a cell phone ( 58 % vs. 64 % ) , and they are also less likely than whites to send or receive text messages ( 55 % vs. 61 % ) . However , Hispanics and whites are equally likely to access the internet and send or receive email from a cell phone . And Hispanics are more likely than whites to engage in instant messaging ( 34 % vs. 20 % ) . Compared with blacks , Hispanics are less likely to access the internet ( 31 % vs. 41 % ) or send or receive email ( 27 % vs. 33 % ) from a cell phone , but rates of texting and instant messaging are similar for the two groups .
About two-thirds of the public ( 64 % ) give officers a warm rating on the scale ( between 51 and 100 ) , including 45 % who rate them very warmly ( 76 - 100 ) . Fewer give a neutral rating of 50 ( 16 % ) , and just 18 % give a cold rating on the scale ( 0 - 49 ) .
Few Americans are expecting much cooperation between parties despite talk that Obama and the Republicans might be able to find common ground on some issues in his last two years in office . Just 18 % of Democrats believed that Republican leaders would cooperate a great deal or fair amount with the White House and 37 % of Republicans shared that view .
Regardless of what they would like to see happen with the law , a growing share of Americans – across partisan lines – now see a dim future for the law 's major provisions . Roughly half of U.S. adults ( 53 % ) expect that its major provisions will probably be eliminated , while 39 % say they are probably here to stay . About six-in-ten Republicans ( 63 % ) predict the ACA 's major provisions will be eliminated , while about a third ( 32 % ) expect them to stay . Democrats are more divided , however : 45 % say major provisions are likely to stay , while a similar share ( 49 % ) expects they will be eliminated .
Although the plurality of Republicans who had agreed with the tea party backed Trump for the nomination in both surveys , Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas enjoyed substantial levels of support from this group : 24 % supported him in December 2015 , while 35 % did so in April 2016 . Far smaller shares of other Republicans favored Cruz at either point . In contrast , Republicans who disagreed with the tea party were substantially more likely than other Republicans to back Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida in late 2015 and Ohio Gov . John Kasich in April 2016 .
The survey finds that Republican voters are less enthused about the quality of their party 's presidential candidates than are Democratic voters in the early primary states . In Iowa , where voters have had much greater exposure to the candidates than in the other early states , 73 % of Republican voters rate the GOP field as good or excellent . By comparison , 87 % of likely Democratic voters in Iowa rate their party 's candidates positively , and twice as many Iowa Democrats as Republicans rate the field as excellent ( 36 % vs. 18 % ) . In addition , fewer Republican than Democratic voters strongly support their candidates . In Iowa , 57 % of GOP voters strongly support their candidate , as do 49 % in New Hampshire and just 44 % in South Carolina . The relatively low level of strong support for candidates among Republican voters also underscores the fluidity of voter opinion in these states .
Seven-in-ten blacks said that blacks in their community were treated less fairly than whites in dealings with the police . In comparison , 37 % of whites and 51 % of Hispanics held that view . Also , 68 % of blacks said that the court system was unfair to blacks , far more than whites ( 27 % ) or Hispanics ( 40 % ) .
Americans have mixed views about whether K-12 schools in their area should offer in-person instruction , online instruction or a combination of both as the coronavirus outbreak intensifies across much of the country . And while the public sees health risks to students and teachers as the top factor that should be given a lot of consideration as schools decide whether to reopen , there are wide partisan gaps in these views , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Overall , about three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 28 % ) say that , all things considered , K-12 schools in the area where they live should provide online instruction five days a week in the fall , while a smaller share ( 19 % ) say schools should provide in-person instruction five days a week . The largest share of Americans ( 36 % ) say K-12 schools in their area should provide a mix of online and in-person instruction . Among parents with children who will be enrolled in elementary , middle or high school in the fall , 32 % say K-12 schools in their area should offer online instruction five days a week , while a similar share ( 34 % ) say schools should offer a mix of online and in-person instruction . About a quarter of these parents ( 23 % ) say schools in their area should offer in-person instruction five days a week . White adults are the most likely to say K-12 schools in their area should offer in-person school five days a week : 24 % say this , compared with about one-in-ten Black ( 8 % ) , Hispanic ( 10 % ) and Asian ( 12 % ) adults . Among Black Americans , 43 % say that , all things considered , schools in their area should provide online instruction five days a week , as do 39 % of Hispanic Americans and 35 % of Asian Americans . About a quarter of white Americans ( 23 % ) share this view .
Yet less than half in either country see the government making significant progress in their fight against criminal organizations . In Mexico , 37 % say the government is winning the campaign against drug traffickers , while 29 % say it is losing ground . Fewer say the government is making progress this year than did so in 2012 ( 47 % ) .
About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) approve of the tax law , including 43 % who strongly approve . Early last year , about the same share of Republicans approved of the tax law ( 75 % ) , but a majority ( 57 % ) strongly approved .
The U.S.-born children of immigrants ( second-generation Americans ) make up 12 % of the nation 's population . By 2050 , immigrants and their children could account for 19 % and 18 % of the population , respectively , according to Pew Research Center projections .
Half of singles say they are n't currently looking for a relationship or dates . Among these single non-daters , 47 % say a major reason why they are n't currently looking for a relationship or dates is that they have more important priorities , while 44 % say they just like being single . Other factors include being too busy ( 20 % ) , not having had luck in the past ( 18 % ) , feeling like no one would be interested in dating them ( 17 % ) , not being ready to date after losing a spouse or ending a relationship ( 17 % ) , feeling too old to date ( 17 % ) and having health problems that make dating difficult ( 11 % ) .
Taking a `` selfie '' was relatively difficult to pull off before digital phones and cameras made them easy . Not surprisingly , the generation that has taken to them more than any other are the Millennials ( ages 18 to 33 ) , who have grown up with the new digital technologies of the 21st century . They 're the heaviest users of the internet , cell phones and social media sites . And a new Pew Research Center survey finds that 55 % of Millennials have posted a `` selfie '' on a social media site ; no other generation is nearly as inclined to do this . Overall , 26 % of Americans have shared a `` selfie '' on a photo-sharing or social networking site .
Workers ' education level is a key determinant of whether they hold jobs that may be teleworked . In February , 62 % of workers with a bachelor 's degree or more education had jobs that could be performed remotely . That is nearly double the share among workers who had completed some college education ( 33 % ) , including an associate degree , and almost triple the share among high school graduates who did not go to college ( 22 % ) . Few workers who did not graduate from high school ( 9 % ) had the option to telework .
Remarriage is on the rise . In 2013 , 23 % of married people had been married before , compared with just 13 % in 1960 . Four-in-ten new marriages in 2013 included a spouse who had said `` I do '' ( at least ) once before , and in 20 % of new marriages both spouses had been married at least once before .
As the president hit the road to shore up the Democrats ' faltering fortunes , the midterm elections topped the news agenda for the third week in a row , accounting for 26 % of the newshole from Sept. 27-Oct. 3 , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Even though the 2010 campaign did not heat up until the primary campaigns began in earnest in the spring , it is now the third biggest story of the year to date , accounting for 7 % of the newshole , according to PEJ 's News Coverage Index . The No . 1 story in 2010 thus far has been the economy ( 12 % ) , followed by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill ( 9 % ) .
For those who own a smartphone , these devices now outpace more traditional means of accessing the web . Some 46 % of smartphone owners say when using the internet , they mostly do so on their phone . This represents a double-digit increase from 2013 , when 34 % of these users said this . At the same time , the share of smartphone users who say a desktop , laptop or tablet computer is their primary device for going online has fallen from 53 % in 2013 to 30 % today . Roughly one-quarter of smartphone users say they equally use a cellphone or a desktop , laptop or tablet computer when going online , up from 12 % six years prior . Smartphone users ' preferred method of going online varies significantly by age . While 60 % of smartphone owners ages 18 to 29 and roughly half of those ages 30 to 49 say they mostly use their cellphone to use the internet , those shares fall to about one-third or less among those ages 50 and older . On the other hand , smartphone users ages 50 and over are about twice as likely as those under the age of 50 to say they mostly access the internet through a computer of some kind ( 43 % vs. 21 % ) .
A majority of Americans continue to say they see the effects of climate change in their own communities and believe that the federal government falls short in its efforts to reduce the impacts of climate change . The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted April 29 to May 5 among 10,957 U.S. adults using the Center 's online American Trends Panel , finds a majority of U.S. adults want the government to play a larger role in addressing climate change . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of climate change – a view that 's about as widely held today as it was last fall .
Despite historically low levels of public trust in the federal government , Americans across the political spectrum continue to overwhelmingly express favorable opinions of a number of individual federal agencies , including the Postal Service , the National Park Service , NASA and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) . And majorities of both Republicans and Democrats now express favorable views of the FBI , reflecting a rebound in GOP perceptions after a decline in recent years . Of the 16 agencies asked about in a national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 5 - 16 among 2,004 U.S. adults , 14 are viewed more favorably than unfavorably by the public . Immigration and Customs Enforcement ( ICE ) is the sole agency asked about in the survey viewed more negatively ( 54 % unfavorable ) than positively ( 42 % favorable ) , while the public is divided in its view of the Department of Education ( 48 % favorable , 48 % unfavorable ) .
This year , one-in-four ( 25 % ) Hispanics lack health insurance , the highest rate of any racial or ethnic group , according to the Current Population Survey 's March 2014 Annual Social and Economic Supplement . About 14 % of the general U.S. population is uninsured .
The top sites among today 's teens include YouTube ( 85 % ) , Instagram ( 72 % ) and Snapchat ( 69 % ) . In the 2014 - 2015 survey , Facebook was the only platform used by a clear majority of teens .
The general news media and specialty publications are major ways most Americans get their information about science . But many also are exposed to scientific subjects through movies and television shows – and they come away from these fictional portraits with a positive impression of working in science , technology and medicine . Roughly eight-in-ten Americans ( 81 % ) say they at least sometimes watch one or more of three types of science-related entertainment shows and movies : those focusing on criminal investigations , ones about hospitals and medical settings , or science fiction , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in May and June .
While the public is divided in its expectations of how Kavanaugh would address Roe , most Americans want Supreme Court nominees to answer senators ' questions on issues like abortion during confirmation hearings . Overall , 61 % of adults –including 70 % of Democrats and 51 % of Republicans – say that when senators ask about issues like abortion , Supreme Court nominees should be required to answer .
Among Democrats , just 13 % of liberals say the U.S. stands above other nations , compared with 23 % of moderate and conservative Democrats . And nearly three-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 29 % ) say there are other countries better than the U.S. ; only 13 % of conservative and moderate Democrats say the same . Adults 65 and older are the most likely to say the U.S. stands above all other nations ( 44 % ) . By contrast , just 12 % of those younger than 30 say the same , the lowest share in any age category . There is little difference in views of the nation 's global standing by race and ethnicity : About three-in-ten whites ( 30 % ) and blacks ( 31 % ) and about a quarter of Hispanics ( 26 % ) view the U.S. as above all other nations . The majority view across each of these groups is that the U.S. is a great country , on par with some other countries .
A growing share of Americans now use smartphones as their primary means of online access at home . Today , roughly one-in-five American adults are `` smartphone-only '' internet users – meaning they own a smartphone , but do not have traditional home broadband service .
Americans say their nation 's colleges and universities compare relatively well with those in other developed countries – but the public offers more negative assessments of the state of U.S. public schools . About half of U.S. adults say the country 's colleges and universities are either the `` best in the world '' ( 16 % ) or `` above average '' ( 35 % ) compared with those in other developed nations , according to a recent Pew Research Center report . By comparison , just 18 % say U.S. public schools rank above average or higher internationally , while 41 % of Americans say public schools are below average ( 37 % rate them as average ) .
Current views mark a shift from April 2016 . Two years ago , a 41 % plurality said the U.S. did too much to solve global problems ; fewer said the country did too little ( 27 % ) or about the right amount ( 28 % ) . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , nearly half ( 48 % ) say the U.S. does too little to solve world problems , up from just 22 % two years ago . There has been a 16-percentage-point decline in the share of Democrats who say the U.S. does too much to help solve world problems , and a 17-point decline in the share saying it does about the right amount . Over the same period , the share of Republicans and Republican leaners who say the U.S. does the right amount to solve world problems has more than doubled ( 42 % now , 17 % then ) . However , nearly four-in-ten Republicans ( 37 % ) say the U.S. does too much to solve world problems , down from 45 % in 2o16 . The share of Republicans who say the U.S. does too little in this regard has fallen 17 percentage points ( from 33 % to 16 % ) .
News diets differ drastically for younger and older Americans . Age gaps that have long been notable have now widened substantially , with those 65 and older five times as likely as 18- to 29-year-olds to often get news from TV . A large majority of those 65 and older ( 81 % ) get news from television often , as do about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those 50 to 64 . Far fewer young Americans are turning to television news , however – only 16 % of those 18 to 29 and 36 % of those 30 to 49 get news often from television .
On balance , more adults say that other countries often take unfair advantage of the U.S. ( 51 % ) than say that other countries treat the U.S. about as fairly as we treat them ( 42 % ) . In the 1990s , Americans were much more likely to view other countries ' treatment of the U.S. as unfair than they are today .
Muslims around the world are set to mark Ramadan , a holy month when many fast from sunrise to sunset in order to focus on their spiritual life and get closer to God . In the United States , the vast majority of Muslims celebrate Ramadan , with eight-in-ten saying they fast during the holiday . Fasting for Ramadan is common across all the demographic groups that make up America 's 2.15 million Muslim adults . For instance , similar shares of Muslim men and women ( 77 % vs. 82 % ) say they fast , and there is little difference between Muslims who were born in the U.S. and immigrants ( 79 % vs. 80 % ) .
An overwhelming majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 91 % ) say that developing alternative sources should be the nation 's energy priority . A smaller majority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 65 % ) also takes this view . Among moderate and liberal Republicans , a large share ( 81 % ) say developing alternative sources should be the nation 's energy priority . The views of moderate and liberal Republicans are relatively close to those of Democrats : 88 % of moderate and conservative Democrats and a near-unanimous 97 % of liberal Democrats say the more important energy priority is developing alternative sources . By contrast , conservative Republicans are much more divided in their views : A narrow majority ( 54 % ) gives greater priority to developing alternative energy sources , while 45 % say the priority should be expanding the production of oil , coal and natural gas .
With many nations under stay-at-home orders and work restrictions due to the COVID-19 crisis , remittances – money sent by migrants to their home countries – are projected to fall by a record 20 % this year . This decline , from a high of $ 714 billion in 2019 to an estimated $ 572 billion in 2020 , comes as the world 's largest remittance-sending nations have experienced especially stringent lockdowns , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the World Bank , Oxford University and Google . The decline in remittances is projected to hit all regions of the world , as many of the 272 million international migrants lose their jobs and stop sending money home . Remittances to European and Central Asian countries the World Bank defines as low and middle income are projected to decline by 28 % , while slightly smaller declines are expected for low- and middle-income nations in sub-Saharan Africa ( 23 % ) , South Asia ( 22 % ) , Latin America and the Caribbean ( 19 % ) , and the Middle East and North Africa ( 20 % ) , according to the World Bank . These projections are based on information about prevailing wages and the number of international migrants in each country . It is not unusual for worldwide remittances from migrants to ebb and flow with economic circumstances in sending countries . In 2009 , during the Great Recession , global remittances declined 5 % as economies shrank . And in 2016 , remittances fell 1 % , driven by weak growth in many countries and declining oil prices . Remittances can also increase during hard times in migrants ' home countries . For example , remittances to Yemen more than doubled between 2011 and 2019 amid a civil war in that country .
Because so few children come to the U.S. as immigrants , young Hispanics are overwhelmingly U.S. born . Among children younger than 18 , 94 % are U.S. born , and about two-thirds of Hispanic Millennials ( 65 % ) were born in the U.S . This compares with about four-in-ten Gen Xers , Boomers and older adults who are U.S. born .
A growing share of Americans are paying close attention to news about the election , but many are also concerned about the media reporting inaccurate or incomplete information . And that includes information reported by their own most-used news sources , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Two-thirds of U.S. adults say they 've seen the news sources they turn to most often present factual information that favors one side of an issue in coverage of the 2020 election , according to the survey , conducted Oct. 6 to 12 among 10,059 Americans – including 8,972 registered voters – as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . More than half ( 56 % ) say their news sources have published breaking information before it was fully verified , and 37 % say their sources have reported made-up news that is intended to mislead .
But in Britain worries about Islamic extremism are intense among both the general public and the Muslim minority population as well . Concerns about the problem rose markedly this year among the general public . And worries about extremism within the British Muslim community are greater than in France , Germany , and Spain .
Two-thirds of the public ( 66 % ) heard at least a little about Rick Perry 's memory lapse at a Republican presidential candidate debate last week ; 36 % say they heard a lot and 30 % say they heard a little about this . Another third ( 33 % ) say they heard nothing at all . The public heard less about last week 's off-year elections and ballot initiatives , some of which were seen as indicators of voter sentiment heading into 2012 . Just 14 % say they heard a lot about the elections , while 39 % say they heard a little . Nearly half ( 46 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this news . Partisans are about equally likely to have heard at least a little about last week 's elections .
When asked whether their country should or should not use military force to defend a NATO ally from a hypothetical attack by Russia , in only five of the 16 member states surveyed – the Netherlands , the U.S. , Canada , the UK and Lithuania – do half or more say that they should use such force . Across the 16 countries , a median of 50 % say that their country should not defend a NATO ally in the event of an attack by Russia , while 38 % say they should .
Few American homeowners were spared from the broad housing collapse a decade ago , but Generation Xers were hit particularly hard . Newer to the housing market , more likely to be buying at peak prices and taking on more mortgage debt to buy their homes , they lost more wealth than other generations . But a new Pew Research Center analysis of Federal Reserve data finds that Gen Xers are the only generation of households to recover the wealth they lost during the Great Recession . The median net worth of Gen X households had declined 38 % from 2007 ( $ 63,400 ) to 2010 ( $ 39,200 ) , while the typical wealth loss for Boomer and Silent households was not as steep ( 26 % and 14 % , respectively ) . Millennials , who were beginning to form households and accumulate wealth ( the oldest was only 26 in 2007 ) , were hit hard by the Great Recession in terms of employment and earnings , but not in terms of wealth destruction , as they had little wealth to lose . ( The Great Recession began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 . )
Public trust in the government remains near historic lows . Only 17 % of Americans today say they can trust the government in Washington to do what is right `` just about always '' ( 3 % ) or `` most of the time '' ( 14 % ) . When the National Election Study began asking about trust in government in 1958 , about three-quarters of Americans trusted the federal government to do the right thing almost always or most of the time . Trust in government began eroding during the 1960s , amid the escalation of the Vietnam War , and the decline continued in the 1970s with the Watergate scandal and worsening economic struggles . Confidence in government recovered in the mid-1980s before falling again in the mid-1990s . But as the economy grew in the late 1990s so too did confidence in government . Public trust reached a three-decade high shortly after the 9/11 terrorist attacks , but declined quickly thereafter . Since 2007 , the share saying they can trust the government always or most of the time has not surpassed 30 % .
Mexico is the top origin country of the U.S. immigrant population . In 2018 , roughly 11.2 million immigrants living in the U.S. were from there , accounting for 25 % of all U.S. immigrants . The next largest origin groups were those from China ( 6 % ) , India ( 6 % ) , the Philippines ( 4 % ) and El Salvador ( 3 % ) .
The new survey also asked Americans to weigh the importance of government versus private investment in research funding . A majority of Americans ( 57 % ) say government funding is essential for scientific progress , while 42 % say private funding will ensure enough progress even without government funding . The share saying government investment is essential is broadly consistent with previous Pew Research Center surveys that again used different survey methods and somewhat different question wording . Liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans have different views on this question . About eight-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 78 % ) say government funding of research is essential for scientific progress . By contrast , 31 % of conservative Republicans say government investment is essential , while two-thirds ( 67 % ) say private investment will ensure enough progress is made , even without government funding .
The U.S. receives overwhelmingly positive ratings in Israel , with even more Israelis now saying they have a favorable view of their country 's ally than did so two years ago , when Pew Research last conducted a survey in Israel ; today , 83 % express a positive opinion of the U.S. , compared with 72 % in 2011 . In contrast , about eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) Palestinians express unfavorable views of the U.S. , virtually unchanged from recent surveys . In Israel , Jews are far more likely than Arabs to express positive views of the U.S. ; nine-in-ten Israeli Jews have a favorable opinion , compared with 42 % of Israeli Arabs . Arabs and Jews in Israel agree , however , that their country 's relationship with the U.S. is good . Overall , 94 % of Israelis think Israel and the U.S. have a good relationship ; 93 % of Israeli Jews and 95 % of Israeli Arabs share this view .
Africans clearly want a good relationship with the U.S. , although positive relations with Beijing are also a priority . When asked whether it is more important for their country to have strong ties with the U.S. or China , the balance of opinion leans toward the U.S. in Uganda , Senegal , and Ghana , while Kenyans and South Africans are more divided . In Nigeria , 37 % say a strong relationship with China is more important , compared with just 17 % who say this about the U.S. ( the question was not asked in Egypt or Tunisia ) .
5 Republicans and Democrats differ on how people across the country are reacting to the outbreak . Relatively small shares of both Republicans ( 30 % ) and Democrats ( 27 % ) say ordinary people across the country are reacting about right to the coronavirus outbreak , but partisans differ in their critique of the public 's response . Among Republicans , more say people across that country are overreacting to the outbreak than not taking it seriously enough ( 39 % vs. 31 % ) . The balance of opinion is the opposite among Democrats : Nearly half ( 48 % ) say people across the country are not taking the outbreak seriously enough , while fewer ( 25 % ) say they are overreacting .
Among those who are religiously unaffiliated , meanwhile , the vast majority ( 84 % ) say casual sex is sometimes or always acceptable , including roughly nine-in-ten atheists ( 94 % ) and agnostics ( 95 % ) who say this . The religiously unaffiliated , also known as `` nones , '' are those who describe themselves , religiously , as atheist , agnostic or as `` nothing in particular . ''
Republicans remain more skeptical than Democrats that Cuba will become more democratic in the next few years . Only about a third of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 34 % ) say Cuba will become more democratic ; 53 % say it will remain about the same as it is today , while 4 % say Cuba will become less democratic . By contrast , half of Democrats and Democratic leaners – including 56 % of liberal Democrats – say Cuba will become more democratic in the years ahead .
Overall , about half of Democrats and Democratic leaners say their side in politics loses more than it wins , and this sentiment is especially widespread among Democrats with lower levels of education . A majority of Democrats with no more than a high school education ( 59 % ) , as well as those with some college experience ( 54 % ) , say their side loses more than it prevails . Among the only groups who feel like they 're winning are well-educated Democrats . Those with at least a college degree are more likely to say they feel like their side is winning ( 51 % ) than say it 's losing ( 41 % ) .
In addition to economic tumult and challenges regarding immigration , the past decade has also seen shifts in the stature of European nations on the world stage . This is particularly true of Germany . Across the 10 European nations polled , a median of 47 % say Germany plays a more important role than a decade ago , while 36 % believe it plays as important a role and just 15 % think it is less important . Only 25 % think France plays a more important role , while a roughly equal share say it is actually less important . As it struggles with the ramifications of its Brexit vote , the UK fares the worst among the three nations tested : 38 % believe the UK is less important than it was 10 years ago , while only 21 % think it is more important . ( For more on what people around the world think about the trajectory of major powers , see `` Trump 's International Ratings Remain Low , Especially Among Key Allies . '' )
Florida and Texas are home to the highest shares of Latinos among immigrant eligible voters . About 54 % of naturalized citizens who are eligible voters in Florida are Latino , the highest in the nation . Texas ( 52 % ) is the only other state where Latinos make up at least half of immigrant eligible voters .
About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 61 % ) said in a 2019 survey that abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with 38 % who said it should be illegal all or most of the time . On both sides of the issue , Americans are more likely than not to leave room for exceptions , with more saying abortion should be legal or illegal most of the time , rather than always . Public support for legal abortion remains as high as it has been in two decades of polling , and there is virtually no difference between the views of men and women . When it comes to the Supreme Court 's 1973 landmark abortion ruling , seven-in-ten Americans ( 70 % ) in the 2019 survey said Roe v. Wade should not be completely overturned . Again , Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to hold this view ; Republicans are roughly evenly divided , with 50 % saying they do not want to see Roe v. Wade completely overturned and 48 % saying they would like the decision tossed out . Overall , similar majorities of women ( 70 % ) and men ( 69 % ) do not want Roe v. Wade overturned . The vast majority of Americans expect abortion to remain at least mostly legal in the U.S. A survey conducted in December 2018 asked Americans what they think the status of abortion laws in the country will be in 2050 ; about three-quarters said it will either be legal with no restrictions ( 22 % ) or legal with some restrictions ( 55 % ) . Far fewer said it will be illegal except in certain cases ( 16 % ) or illegal with no exceptions ( 5 % ) .
Americans are closely divided over the health benefits of organic produce . Some 45 % of U.S. adults say organic fruits and vegetables are better for you than conventionally grown produce , compared with 51 % who say that organic produce is neither better nor worse , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted earlier this year . The share of U.S. adults who say that organic produce is better for one 's health declined by 10 percentage points since a 2016 survey . However , younger people remain more likely than their older counterparts to say organics are healthier than conventionally grown food . Some 54 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 47 % of those ages 30 to 49 believe organic fruits and vegetables are generally better for one 's health , compared with 39 % of those 65 and older who say the same . As in the 2016 survey , there are no differences among men and women on views of the healthfulness of organic foods . About four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 39 % ) estimate that most ( 7 % ) or some ( 32 % ) of the food they eat is organic . A majority of this group ( 68 % ) believes that organic fruits and vegetables are better for health than conventionally grown options . By comparison , 32 % of those who report eating no organic foods or not too much believe that organic produce is better for one 's health .
On the other hand , there is clear evidence that the general public and scientists often see science-related issues through different lenses . For instance , there is a 51-percentage-point gap between scientists and the public about the safety of eating genetically modified foods – 88 % of AAAS scientists think eating GM food is safe , while just 37 % of the public believes that . In addition , there is a 37-percentage-point gap over whether climate change is mostly caused by human activity – 87 % of scientists say it is , while 50 % of the public does .
Most people agree it is important for women to have the same rights as men in their country . Across the 34 countries surveyed , a median of 94 % hold this view , including nearly all in Sweden , the Netherlands , France , the U.S. , Canada , Germany , Greece , Spain , Australia , Argentina , the UK and Hungary .
Catholics who attend Mass at least weekly are more likely than other Catholics to have opinions that align with church policies and teachings . But even among frequent churchgoers , majorities are open to non-traditional family arrangements . For example , roughly a third of Catholics who attend Mass weekly ( 34 % ) say children being raised by a same-sex couple is acceptable and as good as any other arrangement , which is similar to the share who see this as unacceptable ( 36 % ) .
About one-in-ten ( 8 % ) very closely followed reports about the Russian elections and protests about their validity ; 1 % says this was the news they followed most closely . News about the elections made up 1 % of coverage .
A third ( 33 % ) of the public says they followed the debate over health care reform more closely than other top stories last week , while 22 % followed reports about the condition of the U.S. economy most closely . According to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted October 2 - 5 by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press , one-in-ten followed news about earthquakes in Indonesia and a tsunami in the South Pacific most closely , while 9 % named talks between the United States and Iran over Iran 's nuclear program as their top story .
Today , half of Latinos ( 51 % ) express satisfaction with the direction of the country , a 13 percentage point increase over 2011 , when 38 % said the same . One-third ( 33 % ) now report that their finances are in `` excellent '' or `` good '' shape , up from one-quarter ( 24 % ) who said the same in 2011 . And looking forward , Latinos have grown more optimistic about their family 's finances in the next 12 months , with three-in-four ( 73 % ) expecting improvement , up from 67 % who said the same in 2011 .
Among Americans , there are sharp divisions on this policy . About half ( 51 % ) oppose the initial tariffs , while 44 % support the measures . But almost three-quarters of Republicans ( 72 % ) support Trump 's EU tariffs while about seven-in-ten Democrats ( 71 % ) oppose them . In Germany , about eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) support the retaliatory tariffs . There are minimal differences by party in Germany on this question , as most agree with the policy across the political spectrum .
Looking both domestically and internationally , Republicans are more concerned than Democrats about the rise of Islamic extremism . About eight-in-ten Republicans ( 82 % ) are very concerned when it comes to Islamic extremism in the world and 71 % are very concerned about the U.S. specifically ; among Democrats , about half ( 51 % ) are very concerned internationally and 46 % nationally .
Younger Americans are better than their elders at separating factual from opinion statements in the news . About a third ( 32 % ) of Americans ages 18 to 49 correctly identified all five factual statements they were asked to categorize in a Pew Research Center survey , compared with 20 % of those 50 and older . Younger adults ( 44 % ) were also more likely than older Americans ( 26 % ) to accurately classify all five opinion statements . These patterns persisted regardless of the ideological appeal of the statements .
Digital video consumption is growing and digital news video consumption is growing with it . Almost two-thirds of U.S. adults now watch videos online and more than half of those ( 36 % ) watch news videos . This is up from 40 % of U.S. adults who watched or downloaded any kind of video in 2007 and 26 % who watched or downloaded news videos .
Several factors help explain people 's views about emerging technologies and their potential use to augment human abilities . Opinions about implanting devices often hinge on whether the effects would be permanent and irreversible . Asked specifically about the possibility that the effects of an implanted brain chip would be permanent , about half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) say this would make the idea less acceptable to them .
Earlier this year , Pew Research Center found that 55 % of Americans had a negative impression of `` socialism , '' while 42 % expressed a positive view . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) said they had a positive view of `` capitalism , '' and a third viewed it negatively .
Indeed , most Americans assign different degrees of value to different pieces of information . Social Security numbers are ranked as the most sensitive information , while people 's purchasing habits ranked lowest as something they felt was very sensitive .
A new Pew Research Center survey examines this question through the lens of American public opinion and across a range of scientific topics . We found that a majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say that science is often in conflict with religion , with only 38 % saying the two areas are mostly compatible . Here are five key findings from the report : The least religiously observant Americans are most likely to perceive conflict between religion and science . Some 73 % of adults who seldom or never attend religious services say science and religion are often in conflict , while half of adults who attend religious services at least weekly say the same .
American Christians are more likely than their Western European counterparts to think of themselves first in terms of their religion rather than their nationality ; 46 % of Christians in the U.S. see themselves primarily as Christians and the same number consider themselves Americans first . In contrast , majorities of Christians in France ( 90 % ) , Germany ( 70 % ) , Britain ( 63 % ) and Spain ( 53 % ) identify primarily with their nationality rather than their religion .
In fiscal 2017 , 748,746 people received family-based U.S. lawful permanent residence . The program allows someone to receive a green card if they already have a spouse , child , sibling or parent living in the country with U.S. citizenship or , in some cases , a green card . Immigrants from countries with large numbers of applicants often wait for years to receive a green card because a single country can account for no more than 7 % of all green cards issued annually . President Donald Trump said his legislation , when proposed , would prioritize family-based green cards to immediate family members . Today , family-based immigration – referred to by some as `` chain migration '' – is the most common way people gain green cards , in recent years accounting for about two-thirds of the more than 1 million people who receive them annually . This share could decline to about one-third under the president 's proposal . In fiscal 2017 , 137,855 employment-based green cards were awarded to foreign workers and their families . The Trump administration 's points-based plan would increase the number of green cards granted due to having certain skills . The new system would eliminate a green card for immigrant investors who put money into commercial U.S. enterprises that are intended to create jobs or benefit the economy . This path to a green card , the EB-5 program , has drawn criticism from some lawmakers .
Perhaps unsurprisingly , frequent loneliness is linked to dissatisfaction with one 's family , social and community life , the survey found . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) of those dissatisfied with their family life feel lonely all or most of the time , compared with just 7 % of those satisfied with their family life . Satisfaction with one 's social life follows a similar pattern : 26 % of those dissatisfied with their social life are frequently lonely , compared with just 5 % of those who are satisfied with their social life . It 's unclear whether dissatisfaction with particular areas of life leads to feelings of loneliness or vice versa – or whether something else entirely is driving reported feelings of loneliness and isolation .
Yet these broader concerns often coexist with perceived benefits to users . For instance , despite widespread concerns that mobile phones might expose people to false or inaccurate information , a sizable majority of mobile phone users ( 79 % ) say their own phone has helped their ability to get news and information about important issues . Similarly , a median of 58 % of mobile phone users say their devices have helped their ability to communicate face-to-face – even as a median of 48 % of adults in these countries say people should be very worried about mobile phones ' effects on face-to-face communication .
Roughly a third of Gen Zers ( 35 % ) say they know someone who prefers to be referred to using gender-neutral pronouns . Gen Zers ( Americans born after 1996 ) are more likely than Millennials ( born between 1981 and 1996 ) to say they know someone who prefers this : 35 % say this is the case , compared with a quarter of Millennials and smaller shares in older generations .
There are also corresponding levels of pessimism about children 's financial future in each country . Roughly half or more in both Germany and the U.S. say children will be worse off financially when they grow up than their parents were . And only about third in each country say children will be better off .
Certain groups – such as those with higher levels of education and those who are social media users – are especially likely to note both the positive and negative impacts of technology .1 , 2 Across all 11 countries , adults with a secondary education or higher are more likely to say technology has made people more informed about current events relative to those who do not have a secondary education . Yet , in nine countries , those with higher levels of education are also more inclined to say technology has made people more subject to false information and rumors . More highly educated adults are also more likely to say technology has contributed to both political divisions and tolerance of opposing viewpoints in seven of these countries ( Colombia , India , Kenya , Lebanon , the Philippines , Tunisia and Vietnam ) .
The Muslim population in the United States is younger than the U.S. population at large . In fact , while Millennials make up 32 % of all U.S. adults , they account for roughly half of American Muslim adults ( 52 % ) .
Perceptions of Japan in the Asia/Pacific region are mixed . About half or more of the publics in five of seven Asia/Pacific nations surveyed have a favorable view of Japan , most strongly so . Eight-in-ten Malaysians and nearly as many Indonesians ( 79 % ) , Australians ( 78 % ) and Filipinos ( 78 % ) see Japan in a positive light . However , anti-Japan sentiment is quite strong in China , where 90 % of the public has an unfavorable opinion of Japan , and in South Korea ( 77 % unfavorable ) .
Republicans hold a 49 % -40 % lead over the Democrats in leaned party identification among whites . The Democrats hold an 80 % -11 % advantage among blacks , and lead by more than two-to-one among Hispanics ( 56 % -26 % ) . Asian Americans also lean Democratic by a wide margin ( 65 % -23 % ) . This data for Asian Americans is based on interviews conducted in English . Back to top
While blacks are more likely than whites to be Protestant or Muslim , they are significantly less likely to be Catholic . Only 5 % of blacks say they are Catholic , compared with 21 % of the public overall , including 19 % of whites , 48 % of Hispanics and 17 % of Asian Americans .
Of the party 's best-known possible candidates , only Mitt Romney has broad potential appeal . Large majorities have heard of four possible Republican candidates – Romney , Sarah Palin , Newt Gingrich and Ron Paul . But most who have heard of Palin and Gingrich say there is no chance they would vote for them ( 63 % each ) . About as many ( 60 % ) say there is no chance they would support Paul .
Outside of China , Europe was home to some of the first major coronavirus hotspots – as well as some of the most stringent early national quarantine requirements to curb the spread . Results of a summer survey – conducted before a second surge in cases began , in earnest , in September – indicate that people in most European Union nations approved not only of their national governments ' response to COVID-19 , but also of how the EU had handled the outbreak . Across the eight EU member nations surveyed between June and August 2020 , a median of 61 % said the EU had done a good job dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic . Approval was highest in Germany and the Netherlands , where 68 % in each country applauded the bloc 's efforts . At least half or more in every EU country surveyed approved of the EU 's response .
Looking at other news , nearly one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say they followed reports about the death of Elizabeth Edwards more closely than any other major story . The death of Sen. John Edwards ' estranged wife accounted for 5 % of coverage , according to PEJ . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about Elizabeth Edwards ' death very closely , nearly matching the 17 % that said in March 2007 they very closely followed the announcement that her breast cancer had returned . About one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say they followed news about the current situation and events in Afghanistan most closely last week . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they followed Afghanistan news very closely , a number similar to other weeks this fall in which Afghanistan was included on the NII survey . News about Afghanistan accounted for 4 % of coverage . Three-in-ten Republicans ( 30 % ) followed this news very closely , compared with 21 % of Democrats . A quarter of independents ( 25 % ) say they followed Afghanistan news very closely .
About half ( 53 % ) of liberal Democrats say they would more likely to vote for a candidate who supports the Iran agreement , compared with just 17 % who would be less likely to vote for a candidate with this position . Moderate and liberal Democrats are divided : About as many say they would be less likely ( 37 % ) as more likely ( 31 % ) to support a candidate who supports the Iran nuclear agreement .
STEM training in college is associated with higher earnings , whether working in a STEM occupation or not . Among college-educated workers employed full-time year-round , the median earnings for those who have a STEM college major are $ 81,011 , compared with $ 60,828 for other college majors .
The market turnarounds are having a limited effect on the public 's economic outlook because they are not what affect people 's personal financial situation . When people are asked to consider the personal impact of different economic factors , just 32 % say their household finances are affected a lot by real estate values , while even fewer ( 23 % ) say that the stock market has a major effect .
Grandparents who live with their grandchildren are more racially and ethnically diverse than the U.S. population overall , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . Less than half ( 48 % ) of grandparents with grandchildren at home are white , while 75 % of Americans overall ages 50 and older are white . Meanwhile , Hispanics , blacks and Asians make up a larger share of grandparents with grandchildren at home than they do of the 50+ population overall .
An estimated 940,000 Hispanics of Honduran origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Hondurans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Honduran origin ; this includes immigrants from Honduras and those who trace their family ancestry to Honduras . Hondurans are the eighth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Honduran-origin population has increased 296 % , growing from 237,000 to 940,000 over the period . At the same time , the Honduran foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 215 % , from 184,000 in 2000 to 579,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Iran 's image is overwhelmingly negative across much of the world . Unfavorable opinions of Iran are especially pronounced in Europe , with majorities ranging from 88 % in France to 59 % in Britain saying they have a negative opinion of Iran . Russia is the one outlier in the region , with only a 49 % -plurality expressing an unfavorable view of Iran . In North America , about seven-in-ten in the U.S. ( 69 % ) and Canada ( 70 % ) have an unfavorable opinion of Iran . To the south , most countries surveyed in Latin America share this negative assessment of Iran , including at least half in Brazil ( 72 % ) , Chile ( 55 % ) , Mexico ( 52 % ) and Venezuela ( 51 % ) .
Most of that reading among younger adults is through digital text rather than print . About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) of 18- to 29-year-olds who prefer to read their news also prefer to get their news online ; just 10 % choose a print newspaper . The breakdown among 30- to 49-year-olds is similar . News readers who are ages 50 - 64 , on the other hand , are more evenly split between a preference for the web ( 41 % ) and print paper ( 40 % ) , while those 65 and older mostly still turn to the print paper ( 63 % ) . There is also evidence that younger adults who prefer to watch their news are beginning to make the transition to doing so on a computer rather than a television . While 57 % of 18- to 29-year-old news watchers prefer to get their news via TV , 37 % cite the web as their platform of choice . That is far more than any other age group , including double the percentage of 30- to 49-year-old news watchers .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) say that changing an unborn baby 's genetic characteristics to treat a serious disease or condition that the baby would have at birth is an appropriate use of medical technology , while 27 % say this would be taking technology too far . A somewhat smaller share of Americans say gene editing to reduce a baby 's risk of developing a serious disease or condition over their lifetime is appropriate ( 60 % say this , while 38 % say it would be taking medical technology too far ) . But just 19 % of Americans say it would be appropriate to use gene editing to make a baby more intelligent ; eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) say this would be taking medical technology too far .
Other recent news events have attracted far more public attention , from the ongoing investigation into the Boston Marathon bombings ( which 63 % said they had followed very closely ) to the gun-control debate in Congress ( 39 % ) and the explosion of a Texas fertilizer plant ( 27 % ) . Read more
There is no consensus on the future of global cooperation . Americans are about evenly split in their expectations on the direction of international cooperation after the outbreak , with 35 % expecting countries to increase their focus on cooperation after the outbreak , 29 % expecting more focus on countries ' own national interest and 34 % expecting no change in the extent to which countries cooperate with one another .
Large majorities of adults in all age groups say tech companies have a responsibility to prevent misuse of their platforms , but older Americans are somewhat more likely to say this . Around eight-in-ten of those ages 65 and older ( 79 % ) say this , compared with seven-in-ten among those ages 18 to 29 . Younger adults , in turn , are more likely than their older counterparts to have confidence in tech companies to prevent misuse of their platforms . Nearly a third ( 32 % ) of adults under 30 say they are at least somewhat confident in tech companies to prevent misuse , compared with 22 % of adults 65 and up .
The second element of the rural broadband gap is the relatively low level of broadband adoption among rural residents who do use the internet . Just over half ( 55 % ) of rural internet users have a broadband connection at home ; among urban/suburban adults , broadband adoption among internet users is 73 % . Suburban and urban residents are also more likely to have access to a broadband connection at their place of employment ; just over two thirds of rural adults ( 38 % ) have access to a broadband connection either at home or at work , versus more than 55 % for urban and suburban residents .
Almost universally , the Chinese respondents surveyed complain about rising prices – 96 % describe rising prices as a big problem for the country , and 72 % say they are a very big problem . And nearly half ( 48 % ) of those polled say health care is difficult for their family to afford . But the Chinese are almost as concerned about equity in China as they are about inflation . About nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) identify the gap between rich and poor as a major problem and 41 % cite it as a very big problem . Worries about inequality are common among rich and poor , old and young , and men and women , as well as the college-educated and those with less education . In that regard , despite economic growth , concerns about unemployment and conditions for workers are extensive , with 68 % and 56 % reporting these as big problems , respectively .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
The gap between Trump and Biden supporters is about as wide on this question : By more than two-to-one ( 68 % to 30 % ) , Biden supporters credit U.S. success to its ability to change . By a fairly similar margin ( 66 % to 33 % ) , Trump voters hold the opposing view , that the U.S. owes its success more to reliance on long-standing principles .
Overall , 37 % of Americans cite the health care reform debate as the single news story they followed most closely this past week , while 18 % cite news about the economy . These figures are largely unchanged from the previous week . Continuing reports about Tiger Woods remains a major story for some Americans . Roughly one-in-seven Americans ( 14 % ) say they followed news about Tiger Woods more closely than any other story . The international forum on climate change in Copenhagen attracted less focus – just 5 % say that was their top news story this past week .
People in other countries see the U.S. response to the pandemic negatively . A 13-country median of just 15 % say the U.S. has done a good job of dealing with the outbreak . By contrast , half or more of adults in nearly all 13 countries rate the World Health Organization and European Union favorably on their coronavirus response . Relatively few think China has handled the pandemic well , although it still receives considerably better reviews than the U.S. in most countries .
The public clearly has doubts that President Maduro is the right man to get Venezuela back on course . A majority ( 57 % ) in the poll says the president has a bad influence on the country 's direction , compared with 40 % who say he has a good influence . By a 55 % to 44 % margin , Venezuelans also say they are dissatisfied with the overall political system . Fortunately for Maduro , the political opposition seems ill-positioned to take advantage of the public 's frustrations . Barely a year after opposition candidate Henrique Capriles fell short in his effort to win the presidency from Maduro by less than one percent , most Venezuelans ( 52 % ) say the opposition has a bad influence on the country 's direction – nearly on par with Maduro 's negative rating .
Today , about half of voters ( 52 % ) say they have given a lot of thought about the presidential candidates – the highest share at this early point in an election cycle since the question was first asked in the run-up to the 2008 election . Similar majorities of both Republican and Democratic voters say they have given a lot of thought to the 2020 candidates running for president ( 55 % and 52 % , respectively ) . Among registered Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters , the shares who say they have given a lot of thought to the candidates is higher than the shares who said this at similar points in the previous three election cycles . Today , about half of Democratic voters say this ( 52 % ) , compared with smaller shares in 2015 ( 43 % ) , 2011 ( 22 % ) and 2007 ( 37 % ) . Republican voters are about as likely to say they 've thought about the 2020 candidates as they were in September 2015 – when there were over 15 candidates running for the GOP presidential nomination .
The country most likely to name the EU as the world 's top economy in the new survey is Germany , itself the world 's fifth-largest economy by GDP . Still , only one-in-four Germans say the countries of the EU are the world 's leading economic power , compared with 41 % who name China and 24 % who name the U.S .
Among those who have an opinion of Sen. Elizabeth Warren , most say they have a favorable impression of her . About one-quarter of the public ( 27 % ) rates Warren favorably and 17 % feel unfavorably , but a 56 % majority does not express an opinion .
White Democrats ( 83 % ) are far more likely than either black Democrats ( 47 % ) or Hispanic Democrats ( 57 % ) to describe Sanders ' views as liberal . Larger shares of black ( 23 % ) and Hispanic Democrats ( 18 % ) than white Democrats ( 10 % ) say they are not sure how to describe Sanders ' political views . When it comes to views of Biden 's ideology , differences in views by race and ethnicity are more modest than in views of Sanders . However , white Democrats ( 37 % ) are more likely than black Democrats ( 24 % ) or Hispanic Democrats ( 22 % ) to view him as moderate . As with views of Sanders , a larger share of black and Hispanic than white Democrats say they are n't sure how to describe Biden 's political views . ( These patterns hold even among those who follow political and election news very or somewhat closely . ) Majorities of Democrats across age groups view Sanders as liberal , with relatively modest differences from one age group to the next – the exception being Democrats ages 65 and older , who overwhelmingly say Sanders is liberal ( 81 % ) . However , there is an age gap in views of Biden : Nearly half of Democrats 65 and older ( 45 % ) say Biden 's views are moderate , while 31 % say he is liberal and just 13 % call him conservative . Among Democrats ages 18 to 29 , by contrast , nearly as many describe Biden 's views as conservative ( 28 % ) as liberal ( 31 % ) , while 20 % view him as moderate .
Last week , foreign news dominated the public 's news interest with more than seven-in-ten saying they tracked either news about Japan ( 57 % ) or about allied air strikes in Libya ( 15 % ) more closely than any other news . That is rarely the case for this index , which measures public interest in a wide range of stories . In mid-October of last year , 40 % said the dramatic rescue of a crew of Chilean miners trapped in an underground mine was their top story of the week . Despite the fast approaching congressional elections , nothing else came close .
Germans and Americans are also skeptical of China 's human rights record . Overwhelming majorities in each country say the Chinese government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people . This has been true for many years . However , since 2013 , there has been a steady decline in both Germany and America in the percentage of those saying the U.S. government respects the personal freedoms of its people . In that year , 81 % of Germans and 69 % of Americans said the U.S. government respected the personal freedoms of its people . But after multiple scandals involving the exposure of National Security Agency eavesdropping , confidence in American respect for civil liberties began to decline . Now , just 35 % of Germans and 51 % of Americans hold this view .
For example , Europeans with favorable views of right-wing populist parties are less likely to say most people can be trusted . In France , just three-in-ten supporters of the National Rally party say people can be trusted , compared with 55 % of those with an unfavorable opinion of the party . In the Netherlands , supporters of two populist parties , Party for Freedom ( PVV ) and the Forum for Democracy ( FvD ) , are also less likely to say most people can be trusted .
Views among Republicans are much chillier : 43 % give cold ratings to college professors , including about a quarter ( 27 % ) who give a very cold rating . A significantly smaller share of Republicans ( 30 % ) give professors a warm rating , while 25 % take a neutral view . Conservative Republicans are especially likely to give very ( 31 % ) or somewhat ( 20 % ) cold ratings to professors . By contrast , moderate and liberal Republicans hold quite different views : More offer warm ( 49 % ) than cold ( 20 % ) assessments of professors .
There are demographic differences in who identifies as LGBT . The most notable is by age . Young adults , ages 18 to 36 , are by far the most likely to identify as LGBT ( 7.3 % ) . By contrast , much smaller shares of those ages 37 to 51 ( 3.2 % ) , 52 to 70 ( 2.4 % ) and 71 and older ( 1.4 % ) say they are LGBT , according to Gallup . Some 4.4 % of women and 3.7 % of men identify as LGBT . Whites are somewhat less likely ( 3.6 % ) than blacks ( 4.6 % ) , Hispanics ( 5.4 % ) and Asians ( 4.9 % ) to say they are LGBT .
Most Republicans say Trump represents core GOP principles . Currently , 68 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say Trump represents `` the core principles and positions the Republican Party should stand for . '' There has been very little change in these views over the past year . Last October , shortly before the election , 65 % of Republican voters said Trump represented core Republican principles .
On border security , timing is everything , but there are divisions within the Republican ranks . Republicans and Democrats are on opposite sides of the issue when it comes to whether securing U.S. borders must precede allowing undocumented immigrants to seek legal status . A majority ( 56 % ) of Republicans say improved border security must come first , while 60 % of Democrats say providing a path to legal status can occur while border security is being beefed up . Fully 67 % of Tea Party Republicans say undocumented immigrants should only be able to apply for legal status after effective control over the border has been established . Among non-Tea Party Republicans only 47 % express this view .
Yet these concerns are much more widespread among black and Hispanic adults than white adults . And there also are differences in concerns across income levels : A third of Americans with lower incomes say they are very concerned they will get COVID-19 and require hospitalization . Among upper-income adults , only about half as many ( 17 % ) are very concerned . About half of Hispanic adults ( 49 % ) are very concerned about unknowingly spreading COVID-19 to others , compared with 38 % of black adults and 28 % of white adults . And Hispanics ( 43 % ) and blacks ( 31 % ) are far more likely than whites ( 18 % ) to be very concerned over getting COVID-19 and needing to be hospitalized .
With Biden now the party 's presumptive nominee , Democrats generally think that the party will unite around the former vice president . About six-in-ten Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters ( 63 % ) say the party will unite around Biden as the nominee , while 36 % say differences and disagreements will keep many Democrats from supporting Biden . Notably , Democrats who supported Sanders for the party 's nomination in January are the most skeptical that the party will unite around Biden . Nearly half of Democratic voters who supported Sanders for the nomination ( 47 % ) say that differences will keep many in the party from backing Biden .
Interestingly , those who are concerned about the issue of GM foods and those who are nutrition focused are largely different groups of Americans : Just 6 % of adults both care a great deal about GM food issues and say their own eating style is focused on being healthy and nutritious . But their eating habits , their views about organic foods , their views about GM foods and the importance of foods in health are often at odds with those of other Americans .
When asked about eight admissions criteria that colleges may consider , high school grades top the list . About two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say this should be a major factor ; 26 % say it should be a minor factor . And while many colleges have stopped requiring standardized test scores as part of the application process , 47 % of Americans say these scores should play a major role , while an additional 41 % say they should play a minor role . Most Americans also think colleges should take into account community service involvement .
When asked about major national institutions in Venezuela , there is a clear consensus that government-run organizations are having a bad influence on the country . More than six-in-ten say the national government ( 68 % ) , the court system ( 65 % ) and the military ( 63 % ) are having negative influences on the way things are going in Venezuela .
Despite their political differences , most Republicans and Democrats stop short of saying that people in the other party do not share their other values and goals beyond politics . Among both parties , about four-in-ten ( 41 % of Republicans and 38 % of Democrats ) say that members of the opposing party `` feel differently about politics , and they probably do n't share many of my other values and goals either . '' ( Note : these questions are based on partisans and do not include those who lean toward the parties ) .
As is generally the case for views about China on specific issues , there is a notable partisan gap on the overall favorability measure . More than six-in-ten Republicans ( 63 % ) give China an unfavorable rating , compared with 51 % of independents and 50 % of Democrats . Negative assessments of China are also more common among older Americans . Fully 64 % of those ages 50 and older have a negative opinion , while just 39 % hold this view among people under age 30 .
Medical research scientists also draw comparatively less confidence than doctors on a variety of specific questions about their work . Only around a third of the public , for instance , said these researchers always or usually care about the best interests of the public ( 35 % ) and provide fair and accurate information ( 32 % ) .
There were modest differences by household income when Pew Research first began measuring social media usage in 2005 : 4 % of those living in households earning less than $ 30,000 used social media , compared with 12 % of those living in household earning $ 75,000 or more . Those differences have persisted even as each group has seen dramatic growth in usage . Today , 78 % of those living in the highest-income households use social media , compared with 56 % of those in the lowest-income households – a 22-point difference .
The goal of addressing drug addiction has increased in importance among members of both parties . Nearly half of Republicans ( 47 % ) say that dealing with addiction should be a top priority ; this is up 15 points since early last year , when only about third ( 32 % ) of Republicans prioritized this issue .
About half of the public ( 46 % ) says the U.S. Supreme Court should make its rulings based on its understanding of what the Constitution `` meant as it was originally written , '' while an identical share says the court should base its rulings on what the Constitution `` means in current times , '' according to a survey conducted in October . Public opinion about this issue has changed little in recent years . By about two-to-one ( 63 % to 31 % ) , adults younger than 30 say the court should base its rulings on its understanding of the Constitution 's current meaning , rather than what it meant when originally written . Views among those ages 30 to 49 are more divided ( 44 % original meaning , 45 % meaning in current times ) . A 54 % majority of those 50 and older say rulings should be based on the court 's understanding of the Constitution 's original meaning . Blacks ( 63 % ) are more likely than whites ( 41 % ) to say the court should base its rulings on its understanding of the Constitution 's current meaning . And adults with at least a college degree , particularly those with postgraduate degrees , are more likely than those with less education to express this view .
Restrictions on religion increased around the world in 2016 , according to Pew Research Center 's ninth annual study on global restrictions on religion . This is the second year in a row that overall restrictions on religion – whether the result of government actions or by individuals or societal groups – increased in the 198 countries included in the study . More than a quarter ( 28 % ) of countries had `` high '' or `` very high '' levels of government restrictions on religion in 2016 , an increase from 25 % the year before . This is the largest share of countries in these categories since 2013 . Countries in the `` high '' or `` very high '' categories scored at least a 4.5 on the Government Restrictions Index . The index is a 10-point scale based on 20 indicators of government restrictions on religion , including limits on proselytizing and public preaching , or detentions and assaults of religious group members . Laos , for example , joined the `` very high '' restrictions category in 2016 , due in part to a new government decree that allows the Ministry of Home Affairs to stop any religious activity that it sees as counter to policies , traditional customs or laws within its jurisdiction .
Among those who expect that Russia or other foreign governments will try to influence the election , about six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say this is a major problem . Democrats are about twice as likely as Republicans to view attempts to influence the election as a major problem ( 78 % vs. 37 % ) .
Democrats ' overall assessments of how well the caucus and primary process will do in selecting the best general election candidate are largely positive . Around three-quarters Democratic voters ( 77 % ) expect this year 's nominating contests to do a very or somewhat good job of selecting the best Democratic candidate for the general election .
Roughly a third of Americans ( 34 % ) now say substantially expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall would result in a major reduction in illegal immigration into the U.S. , up from 29 % two years ago . Two-in-ten say expansion would lead to a minor reduction in illegal immigration , while a plurality ( 44 % ) continues to say expanding the wall would have little impact .
While views vary in the region on whether China acts too unilaterally in foreign affairs , its growing military power has caused concern among its Asian-Pacific neighbors . About seven-in-ten or more in Japan , South Korea , Australia and the Philippines regard China 's increasing military might as a bad thing , with that view held by 96 % in Japan and 91 % in South Korea . There is less concern in Pakistan ( 5 % ) , Malaysia ( 20 % ) , and Indonesia ( 39 % ) , although the number of people in those countries who see China 's military power as a positive thing is down from previous surveys .
Just as with other populations , differences in voter turnout rates exist among Latino eligible voters . In 2010 , Latino college graduates had the highest voter turnout rate ( 50.3 % ) among Latino eligible voters , while young Latinos ages 18 to 29 had the lowest ( 17.6 % ) . Differences in participation rates also exist by country of origin . Nearly half ( 49.3 % ) of Cuban-origin Latinos voted in 2010 compared with 29.6 % of Puerto Rican-origin Latinos and 28.7 % of Mexican-origin Latinos . Similarly , a greater share of naturalized foreign-born Latinos than native-born Latinos voted—36.6 % versus 29.2 % .
Most Spaniards have little faith in elected officials , or the government more broadly , to act in their best interest . Only 23 % of Spaniards agree that elected officials care what people like them think . Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) disagree .
Many Europeans are concerned that the influx of refugees will increase the likelihood of terrorism and impose a burden on their countries . A median of 59 % across 10 EU countries voice concern about the prospect of increased terrorism . This includes 76 % who say this in Hungary and 71 % in Poland . Around six-in-ten in Germany ( 61 % ) , the Netherlands ( 61 % ) and Italy ( 60 % ) also think refugees will increase terrorism in their country . ( The survey was conducted prior to terrorist attacks in France and Germany that occurred over the summer . )
The Northeast , home to several of the most traveled transit systems in the country , has the largest share of adults by region ( 25 % ) who use public transportation on a regular basis ( daily or weekly ) . City dwellers are also more frequent users of mass transit . Some 21 % of urban residents use public transit on a regular basis , compared with 6 % of suburban residents and just 3 % of rural residents .
Among Latino voters , support for Obama was strong among all major demographic sub-groups . Yet some differences were evident . According to the national exit poll , Hispanic women supported Obama more than Hispanic males—76 % versus 65 % .
Roughly three-in-ten or more online dating users say someone through a dating site or app continued to contact them after they said they were not interested ( 37 % ) , sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for ( 35 % ) or called them an offensive name ( 28 % ) . Fewer online daters say someone via a dating site or app has threatened to physically harm them . Younger women are particularly likely to encounter each of these behaviors . Six-in-ten female online dating users ages 18 to 34 say someone via a dating site or app continued to contact them after they said they were not interested , while 57 % report that another user has sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for . Other negative interactions are more violent in nature : 19 % of younger female users say someone on a dating site or app has threatened to physically harm them – roughly twice the rate of men in the same age range who say this .
In other news this week , 28 % of the public paid very close attention to the situation in Iraq , while 22 % closely followed the debate in Washington about Iraq policy . Interest in the 2008 presidential campaign was unchanged from the previous week – 18 % followed news about the candidates very closely , and another 28 % followed campaign news fairly closely . Democrats continue to follow the campaign more closely than Republicans .
Disabled Americans were politically engaged in the 2016 presidential election . In a survey conducted in the early summer of 2016 , about seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Americans who self-identified as disabled said it `` really matters who wins the election , '' compared with 59 % of Americans who did not report having a disability . Disabled Americans were also more likely to follow the campaign closely than those without a disability . These findings are from the Center 's American Trends Panel , which found that 22 % of American adults self-reported living with a disability in 2016 , defined as a `` health problem , disability , or handicap currently keeping you from participating fully in work , school , housework , or other activities . ''
Though they tend to get less attention than gun-related murders , suicides have long accounted for the majority of U.S. gun deaths . In 2017 , six-in-ten gun-related deaths in the U.S. were suicides ( 23,854 ) , while 37 % were murders ( 14,542 ) , according to the CDC . The remainder were unintentional ( 486 ) , involved law enforcement ( 553 ) or had undetermined circumstances ( 338 ) .
Of the two issues , climate change is the more commonly selected threat in eight of 14 countries polled , while five name the spread of infectious diseases as a top threat ( the Canadian public is split , with equal shares citing climate change and the spread of disease ) . Majorities in each of the countries surveyed say both global climate change and the spread of infectious diseases are major threats to their country . The share who say climate change is a major threat in each country ranges from 59 % in Australia to 83 % in France , Spain and Italy . Two-thirds or more say the same in Canada , Germany , the Netherlands , Belgium , the UK , Japan and South Korea .
Few Americans name Germany as their country 's most or second-most important foreign policy partner , but about a third of Germans name the U.S. Only 9 % in the U.S. name Germany as one of their top two foreign affairs partners , far fewer than the 37 % who name the UK and 26 % who name China . Since 2017 the share of Americans saying Canada is their country 's first- or second-priority partner has increased to 25 % . In fact , Germany is no longer among the top five countries cited by Americans .
When it comes to views of how accepting society in general is of people who do n't identify as either a man or a woman , a plurality of Americans ( 41 % ) say society is not accepting enough , while roughly a third ( 32 % ) say it is too accepting and a quarter say it is about right . Views diverge sharply by partisanship and age here too , with Democrats and younger adults more likely than Republicans and those who are older to say society is not accepting enough of people who do n't identify as a man or a woman .
An estimated 210,000 Hispanics of Panamanian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Panamanians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Panamanian origin ; this includes immigrants from Panama and those who trace their family ancestry to Panama . Panamanians are the 15th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for less than 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Panamanian-origin population has increased 108 % , growing from 101,000 to 210,000 over the period . At the same time , the Panamanian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 39 % , from 61,000 in 2000 to 85,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Majorities across social and demographic groups say they have at least a fair amount of confidence in scientists and medical scientists to act in the best interest of the public . Americans with more education are especially likely to say they have confidence in scientists . Among those with a postgraduate degree , 89 % say they have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in scientists and 93 % have a great deal or fair amount of confidence in medical scientists to act in the best interests of the public .
But there are stark differences between political groups when it comes to whether climate change is occurring and the primary factors driving climate change . Asked to choose which of three alternatives describes their views about the earth 's temperature , 71 % of Democrats and independents who lean Democratic say the earth is warming primarily due to human activity , such as burning fossil fuels . By contrast , just 27 % of Republicans and leaning Republicans hold this view ; 30 % of this group says climate change is mostly due to natural patterns in the earth 's environment and 41 % say there is no solid evidence the earth is warming .
The U.S. is the only country surveyed where a majority expresses positive views of Israel : 57 % of Americans have a favorable opinion and 27 % have an unfavorable view of one of their country 's closest allies in the Middle East . Russians also express more favorable than unfavorable views of Israel ( 46 % vs. 38 % ) . In predominantly Muslim countries , as well as in France , Germany , Britain and China , majorities or pluralities express negative opinions in Israel . At least eight-in-ten in Lebanon ( 99 % ) , Jordan ( 96 % ) , the Palestinian territories ( 94 % ) , Egypt ( 92 % ) , Turkey ( 86 % ) , and Tunisia ( 86 % ) offer unfavorable views . Majorities in China ( 66 % ) , France ( 65 % ) and Germany ( 62 % ) also express negative opinions of Israel , as does a 44 % -plurality in Britain .
The U.S. public generally anticipates more negative than positive effects from widespread job automation . Around three-quarters of Americans ( 76 % ) say inequality between the rich and the poor would increase if robots and computers perform most of the jobs currently being done by humans by 2050 . Only a third ( 33 % ) believe it 's likely that this kind of widespread automation would create many new , better-paying jobs for humans .
The public continued to focus most closely on the outcome of the midterm elections last week as news coverage highlighted their impact on the balance of power and the agenda in Washington . A quarter of the public ( 25 % ) says they followed news about the election outcome more closely than any other major news . Nearly as many ( 20 % ) say they followed news about the still-struggling economy most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Nov. 11 - 14 among 1,001 adults .
3 . Social media has grown as a source for news : 19 % of Americans saw news on a social network `` yesterday '' in 2012 , more than double the 9 % who had done so in 2010 . Those in their 30s ( 30 % ) are nearly as likely as those 18 - 24 ( 34 % ) to say they saw news or news headlines on Facebook or another social networking site yesterday . ( Report )
Most expect woman president , eventually . Following Clinton 's defeat , a sizable majority of voters ( 79 % ) still expect there will be a female president `` in their lifetime . '' There are no significant differences in these opinions among men and women , or Clinton supporters and Trump backers .
The most common type of foreign student visa is the F-1 visa , and these are typically given to those pursuing college degrees . The number of newly enrolled foreign students with F-1 visas at U.S. colleges and universities has grown dramatically , increasing from 138,000 in 2004 to 364,000 in 2016 . Much of this growth has happened since the start of the Great Recession .
Black and Hispanic households continue to be about twice as likely as white households to rent their homes . In 2016 , 58 % of black household heads and 54 % of Hispanic household heads were renting their homes , compared with 28 % of whites . But all major racial and ethnic groups were more likely to rent in 2016 than a decade earlier .
Many Christian traditions disapprove of premarital sex . And even though Christians in the United States hold less permissive views than religiously unaffiliated Americans about dating and sex , most say it 's acceptable in at least some circumstances for consenting adults to have sex outside of marriage , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Half of Christians say casual sex – defined in the survey as sex between consenting adults who are not in a committed romantic relationship – is sometimes or always acceptable . Six-in-ten Catholics ( 62 % ) take this view , as do 56 % of Protestants in the historically Black tradition , 54 % of mainline Protestants and 36 % of evangelical Protestants . Among those who are religiously unaffiliated , meanwhile , the vast majority ( 84 % ) say casual sex is sometimes or always acceptable , including roughly nine-in-ten atheists ( 94 % ) and agnostics ( 95 % ) who say this . The religiously unaffiliated , also known as `` nones , '' are those who describe themselves , religiously , as atheist , agnostic or as `` nothing in particular . '' When it comes to sex between unmarried adults who are in a committed relationship , the gap between Christians and the unaffiliated is less stark . A majority of Christians ( 57 % ) say sex between unmarried adults in a committed relationship is sometimes or always acceptable . That includes 67 % of mainline Protestants , 64 % of Catholics , 57 % of Protestants in the historically Black tradition and 46 % of evangelical Protestants .
While China 's government may be officially communist , the Chinese people express widespread support for capitalism . Roughly three-quarters of the Chinese ( 76 % ) agree that most people are better off in a free market economy . And since 2002 , the Chinese have consistently been one of the strongest proponents of capitalism compared with other publics around the world , even more so than Americans and Western Europeans .
In the Pew Research survey , both private and public college graduates were likely to say that their education was worth what they and their family paid for it . Roughly equal shares of 83 % among private school graduates and 86 % among public school graduates said they had already seen a payoff . Small shares of each ( 5 % of private graduates and 7 % of public graduates ) said they expect to see their educations pay off in the future . The remainder said it will not pay off , or they are not sure .
At the same time , unauthorized file-sharing venues are still firmly rooted in the online music world . In a recent Pew Internet Project survey , 15 % of online adults admitted to downloading or sharing files using peer-to-peer or BitTorrent .30 Globally , estimates from file-sharing research firm Big Champagne place the P2P universe at more than 200 million computers with at least one peer-to-peer application installed , and operators of the popular Pirate Bay torrent tracker have identified more than 25 million `` peers '' who have used their site alone to exchange files .31
Women 's expressed desire for the top spot varied markedly by age and race , though among all subgroups women were less likely than men to say so . Only 29 % of white women said they 'd like to be a boss or top manager someday , as opposed to 53 % of black women and 51 % of Hispanic women . And 61 % of Millennial women ( ages 18 to 32 ) said they wanted to be a boss someday , compared with 41 % of Gen-X women ( ages 33 to 48 ) and 21 % of Baby Boomer women ( ages 49 to 67 ) .
When considering the broader question of whether it is possible to reduce environmental regulations while protecting the environment , there is a strong divide in public opinion . About half ( 49 % ) of the public says it is possible to cut back on environmental regulations and still effectively protect air and water quality , while a similar share ( 47 % ) says this is not possible . There are large partisan divides on this issue . By a 63 % -35 % margin , most Republicans and Republican leaners hold that it is possible to cut back on environmental regulations and still effectively protect air and water quality in the U.S .
There are also wide political differences on other important energy issues . Democrats and Democratic leaners are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to prioritize use of alternative energy , such as wind and solar , over traditional fossil fuel development . Further , 78 % of Democrats/leaning Democrats favor stricter limits on power plant emissions to address climate change , compared with 50 % of Republicans/leaning Republicans . Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP are also more likely than Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents to favor the increased use of hydraulic fracturing , or `` fracking , '' to extract oil and natural gas from underground rock formations ; more offshore oil and gas drilling ; and building more nuclear power plants .
Among Republicans who identify as more conservative than the GOP , more than three-quarters ( 79 % ) say they have given a lot of thought to the 2016 election . Republicans with similar or more liberal views relative to their party are less invested : 64 % of those ideologically aligned with the GOP have given the campaign a lot of thought , along with 62 % of Republicans more liberal than their party .
Dramatic events in London and Scotland last week attracted a large news audience . Roughly a third of the public paid very close attention to news that British police had found and defused two car bombs in London , and another 31 % followed the story fairly closely . Fully 21 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other — making it the most closely followed news story of the week .1 Interest in the attempted bombings did not reach the level of last summer 's major terrorism scare . In August 2006 , 54 % of the public paid very close attention to news about a foiled plot to blow up planes flying from England to the U.S. using liquid explosives .
While majorities of both Democrats and Republicans – including independents , who lean towards these parties – believe that schools have a responsibility to provide technology to at least some students to help them complete their schoolwork , there are partisan differences when it comes to the idea of providing laptops or tablets to all students . Some 45 % of Democrats believe schools should be obligated to provide computers to all students during the outbreak , compared with 28 % of Republicans . Meanwhile , Republicans are more likely than Democrats to believe schools do not have a responsibility to provide computers to any students ( 29 % vs. 11 % ) .
More Americans now think that members of Congress who support the Tea Party are having a negative effect than said that in January , at the start of the new Congress . Currently , 29 % judge the impact of Tea Party supporters as mostly negative compared with 22 % who see their impact as mostly positive . At the beginning of the year , the balance of opinion was just the opposite : 27 % said that Tea Party members in Congress would have a positive impact , while 18 % expected a negative effect .
Roughly half of Americans ( 51 % ) say it 's better for a woman who wants to reach high political office to have children before entering politics , according to a 2018 Pew Research Center survey on gender and leadership . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say it would be better to wait until she is well-established in her political career , while 19 % say it would be better for a woman not to have children at all if she plans to seek higher office . Views are different when it comes to leadership positions in the business world . About a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) say it 's better for women who want to reach top executive jobs in business to have children early in their careers , 41 % say they should wait and 34 % say it 's better for them not to have children at all .
As has consistently been the case , seniors express the strongest opposition to changing Medicare into a program that offers future participants credits toward purchasing private health insurance coverage . People age 65 and older who have heard about this proposal oppose it by a 55 % to 24 % margin , with fully 46 % saying they are strongly opposed . There also is more opposition than support among people age 50 to 64 , while those under age 50 are more divided . The issue also splits along partisan lines with Democrats opposed to such a change by a 61 % to 28 % margin , while Republicans are more likely to favor it , though by a slimmer 46 % to 32 % margin . Among independents , 49 % are opposed to this sort of gradual shift toward Medicare vouchers , while 34 % are in favor .
Half of Americans say U.S. and NATO troops should remain in Afghanistan until the situation has stabilized , while 43 % want them removed as soon as possible . By contrast , majorities in France ( 61 % ) , Italy ( 56 % ) , Germany ( 54 % ) and Britain ( 54 % ) say troops should be withdrawn , as do roughly half in Spain ( 48 % ) .
Nearly six-in-ten adults ( 59 % ) say that the actions of ordinary Americans have a great deal of impact on how the coronavirus spreads through the country , while 28 % say that individual actions affect the spread of the virus a fair amount ; about one-in-ten ( 12 % ) say that the actions of ordinary Americans affect the spread of the virus either not too much ( 10 % ) or not at all ( 2 % ) . Nearly three-quarters of Democrats ( 73 % ) say that the actions of ordinary Americans affect how the coronavirus spreads in the U.S. a great deal and 22 % say the actions of ordinary Americans have a fair amount of effect . Just 5 % of Democrats say that individual actions affect how the virus spreads either not too much or not at all . While most Republicans say that individual actions affect the spread of the coronavirus , fewer than half ( 44 % ) say that this affects the spread of the virus a great deal . About one-third ( 35 % ) say that individual actions affect how the virus spreads a fair amount , and roughly two-in-ten Republicans ( 21 % ) say that individual actions affect how the coronavirus spreads either not too much or not at all . There are also notable age and educational differences in beliefs about the impact of individual actions . About half ( 52 % ) of adults ages 18 to 29 say that the actions of ordinary people affect the spread of the virus a great deal , compared with more than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) of those 65 and older . And those with a postgraduate degree are 20 percentage points more likely to say this than adults without any college experience .
The news media 's watchdog role is seen as more of a necessary check among black adults than among whites . About three-quarters of blacks ( 74 % ) say that news organizations ' criticism of political leaders – known as the media 's `` watchdog '' role – keeps these leaders from doing things that should n't be done . A similar portion of Hispanics ( 72 % ) say the same , but that share drops to 65 % among whites . And while a majority of Americans say news organizations tend to favor one side when dealing with political and social issues , blacks are more closely split on the matter . Among black adults , 41 % say news organizations deal fairly with all sides , compared with 56 % who say news organizations tend to favor one side . In comparison , whites are more likely to say that news organizations tend to favor one side ( 76 % say this ) .
A sharp decrease in the share of mothers with four or more children has played a role in the long-term decline in larger families , according to the Census Bureau data . In 1976 , four-in-ten moms in their early 40s had given birth to four or more children . But by 2016 , the share had shrunk to just 15 % . The three-child family , by contrast , has held relatively constant : In both 1976 and 2016 , roughly a quarter of mothers ages 40 to 44 had given birth to three children .
Responses to this question again diverge by age . While 37 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 38 % of those ages 30 to 49 say it is it is very or somewhat important to get information from the campaigns , the share jumps to 58 % among those 65 and older .
As with partisan affiliation , there are substantial differences in the ideological leanings of generations . Based on data from the Pew Research Center 's 2014 Political Polarization survey , Millennials are currently the least conservative generation . Across a set of 10 political values questions on issues such as the role of government , the environment and business , just 15 % of Millennials express either consistently or mostly conservative views compared with 44 % who have a mix of liberal and conservative views and fully 41 % who express consistently or mostly liberal views . By comparison , more Gen Xers ( 25 % ) , Baby Boomers ( 33 % ) and Silents ( 39 % ) express consistently or mostly conservative views across this set of 10 questions .
Democrats ' perception of state policies depends on where they live . A majority of Democrats ( 57 % ) living in states where stay-at-home orders or other restrictions were in place as of May 5 say evidence from public health experts has a great deal of influence on their state 's policies . In contrast , 28 % of Democrats living in states where restrictions were lifted by May 5 or never in place say the same .
As the Senate impeachment trial gets underway , slightly more Americans say that Donald Trump should be removed from office than say he should stay in office , with these views starkly divided along partisan lines . Roughly half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) say the outcome of the Senate trial should be Trump 's removal from office , while 46 % say the result should lead to Trump remaining in office . An overwhelming share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 86 % ) say the trial should result in Trump remaining in office , while roughly the same share of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 85 % ) think Trump should be removed . While the public 's preferences for the outcome of the Senate trial are closely divided , 63 % of Americans say Trump has definitely ( 38 % ) or probably ( 25 % ) done things that are illegal , either during his time in office or while he was running for president . A larger majority ( 70 % ) say he has definitely ( 45 % ) or probably ( 26 % ) done unethical things , according to the new survey , conducted Jan. 6 - 19 among 12,638 U.S. adults on Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel . As was the case in public views of the House 's impeachment inquiry in the fall , the public does not express much confidence in either party to be `` fair and reasonable '' during the Senate trial . About half of Americans ( 48 % ) are at least somewhat confident that Senate Democrats will be fair and reasonable , while slightly fewer ( 43 % ) say the same about the Senate GOP . Most partisans say they are confident senators of their party will behave fairly and reasonably , while also expecting that those in the other party will not .
Among women ages 40 to 50 , the median age at which those with a master 's degree or more first became mothers now stands at 30 , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of census data . In comparison , the median age at first birth for women with a high school diploma or less is just 24 .
On the eve of Tuesday night 's second presidential debate at Hofstra University , voters are divided as to which candidate they think will do the better job : 41 % say Obama will do better , while 37 % expect Romney to prevail . This stands in stark contrast to expectations prior to the first presidential debate two weeks ago , which voters expected Obama to win by a 51 % -29 % margin .
The Millennial generation also encompasses a broad span of adults ( currently those born from 1981 to 1997 ) . But just 40 % of those in this cohort consider themselves Millennials , while as many as a third ( 33 % ) say they belong to Gen X . Among older Millennials ( ages 27 to 34 ) , 43 % consider themselves Gen Xers , while 35 % identify as Millennials . Yet even among younger Millennials ( ages 18 to 26 ) , fewer than half ( 45 % ) consider themselves part of this generation . Most adults ( 58 % ) born between 1965 and 1980 , the birth years of Gen X , identify with `` their '' generation . Notably , relatively few Gen Xers ( just 4 % ) identify as Millennials , but 15 % consider themselves Boomers . Among younger Gen Xers ( ages 35 t0 42 ) , 68 % identify with Gen X ; among older Gen Xers , fewer ( 48 % ) see themselves as part of this generation , while 24 % identify as Boomers .
However , there are significant partisan differences over how much the U.S. can learn from the international response . While 60 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the U.S. can learn a great deal , just 28 % of Republicans and Republican leaners share that view .
With the death toll from Boko Haram 's terrorist campaigns numbering in the thousands , it is perhaps not surprising that among the 69 % of Nigerian Muslims concerned by Islamic extremism , a 48 % -plurality say they are most worried by the violence associated with extremism . Fewer say their worries focus on the possibility that extremism will lead to reduced personal freedoms ( 19 % ) , hurt the country 's economy ( 15 % ) , or divide the nation ( 10 % ) . Christian Nigerians worried about Islamic extremism are also most concerned about the violent nature of extremist groups ( 64 % ) .
As Iranians prepare to elect a new president , the country 's international image is largely negative . Majorities in most of 39 countries surveyed have an unfavorable opinion of Iran , and most say Tehran does not respect the personal freedoms of its people . Meanwhile , any nuclear ambitions harbored by the Iranian government continue to draw strong opposition from Western countries , as well as neighboring states in the Middle East . Iran 's poor reputation for protecting personal freedoms does not help its international image . Majorities in 24 of 39 countries surveyed think Tehran does not respect the rights of its citizens . This includes three-quarters or more who hold this view in Europe and North America , as well as in Israel , Brazil , Australia and South Korea .
As might be expected , Republican Muslims are less likely than Democrats to see the Republican Party generally , and President Trump specifically , as unfriendly toward Muslim Americans . Still , sizable shares see their own party – and Trump – as unfriendly . In the 2017 survey , around half of GOP Muslims ( 52 % ) said Trump is unfriendly toward U.S. Muslims and about a third ( 34 % ) said the same about the GOP in general .
Mobile technology has spread rapidly around the globe . Today , it is estimated that more than 5 billion people have mobile devices , and over half of these connections are smartphones . But the growth in mobile technology to date has not been equal , either across nations or within them . People in advanced economies are more likely to have mobile phones – smartphones in particular – and are more likely to use the internet and social media than people in emerging economies . For example , a median of 76 % across 18 advanced economies surveyed have smartphones , compared with a median of only 45 % in emerging economies . Smartphone ownership can vary widely by country , even across advanced economies . While around nine-in-ten or more South Koreans , Israelis and Dutch people own smartphones , ownership rates are closer to six-in-ten in other developed nations like Poland , Russia and Greece . In emerging economies , too , smartphone ownership rates vary substantially , from highs of 60 % in South Africa and Brazil to just around four-in-ten in Indonesia , Kenya and Nigeria . Among the surveyed countries , ownership is lowest in India , where only 24 % report having a smartphone .
As Americans have become more negative on China , they have also become more downbeat about their country 's global stature . In 2016 , a 46 % plurality of Americans said the U.S. plays a less important and powerful role as a world leader compared with 10 years ago . This figure was up 26 percentage points from 2004 , when just 20 % believed American power was waning . The Chinese public , on the other hand , sees its country 's influence on the rise . Three-quarters of Chinese believe their country is playing a more important role in the world today compared with a decade ago .
Partisan differences are also present today when asking about feeling safe versus having freedom of speech online . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to think people being able to feel welcome and safe online is more important than people being able to speak their minds freely online ( 60 % vs. 45 % ) , while Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say people being able to speak their minds freely online is more important ( 54 % vs. 38 % ) .
Differences on security issues predominate when looking at American and German public opinion . For example , Americans and Germans take opposing views on Article 5 obligations under NATO . When asked whether their country should or should not use military force to defend a NATO ally in the event of a potential Russian attack , six-in-ten Americans say their country should defend that ally , while an equal share of Germans say their country should not .
Today , 39 % of adults approve of the way Trump is handling his job , while 54 % disapprove . Evaluations are more intense among disapprovers ; 42 % of the public disapproves of the way Trump is handling his job very strongly , while 12 % say they disapprove not so strongly . There is an 18 point gender gap in approval ratings of the president : 48 % of men approve of Trump 's performance , while just 30 % of women say the same .
In most cases , however , married and single mothers view child-rearing values similarly . For instance , overwhelming percentages of both groups ( 96 % each ) say it is important for children to be taught responsibility , and about half ( 50 % of married mothers , 55 % of single mothers ) view it as one of the most important values for children to be taught .
Americans also distinguish themselves from Western Europeans on views about the importance of religion . Half of Americans deem religion very important in their lives ; fewer than a quarter in Spain ( 22 % ) , Germany ( 21 % ) , Britain ( 17 % ) and France ( 13 % ) share this view .
The political conversation on Twitter is markedly different than that on blogs — and both are decidedly different than the political narrative presented by the mainstream press , according to a new study by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism that analyzed more than 20 million tweets , the online conversation and traditional news coverage about the campaign from May 2 through November 27 .
For example , native-born Latino youths are about twice as likely as the foreign born to have ties to a gang or to have gotten into a fight or to have carried a weapon in the past year . They are also more likely to be in prison . The picture becomes even more murky when comparisons are made among youths who are first generation ( immigrants themselves ) , second generation ( U.S.-born children of immigrants ) and third and higher generation ( U.S.-born grandchildren or more far-removed descendants of immigrants ) .1
Given other economic and environmental problems , however , education is not high on the minds of the Chinese public . In our 2013 survey , only 24 % in China said education was a very big problem , which lagged far behind those who identified rising prices ( 59 % ) , corrupt officials ( 53 % ) and the gap between the rich and the poor ( 52 % ) as major problems . However , the issue has picked up steam since 2008 , when only 11 % said education was a very big problem .
One potential reason the public may place the blame for unfair coverage on news organizations more than journalists is that Americans generally believe individual journalists are capable of distancing their own views from their reporting . Six-in-ten U.S. adults say it is possible for journalists to fully set aside their own views and opinions when reporting on an issue or event , much higher than the 39 % who say they can not do this . And while Democrats are somewhat more likely than Republicans to think journalists are able to distance their views from their reporting , at least half in both parties say this ( 65 % vs. 53 % ) .
But views were more equivocal when it came to the gap between the rich and everyone else . While a 53 % majority in this same poll favored the government doing a lot to reduce poverty , just 43 % said the government should do a lot to reduce the gap between rich people and everyone else .
Overall , 23 % of partnered adults whose significant other uses social media say they have felt jealous or unsure about their relationship because of the way their current spouse or partner interacts with other people on social media . But this share is even higher among those in younger age groups .
In total , about 1.1 million unauthorized immigrants are eligible for the benefits , according to a 2014 Pew Research Center estimate , which means that about 78 % of those potentially eligible have applied to the program . The total reflects the number of applications during the life of the program , not the number of applications approved or immigrants currently receiving benefits . Several U.S. senators who support the bill represent states with some of the highest number of DACA recipients , including California , Illinois and Arizona . California alone has 222,795 initial DACA recipients , the highest in the nation , followed by Texas ( 124,300 ) and Illinois ( 42,376 ) .
In our survey last year , we found that 7 % of online adults ages 18 - 29 were aware that they had important personal information stolen such as their Social Security Number , credit card or bank account information . The latest survey finds that 15 % of young adults have experienced this kind of personal information theft . Similarly , those ages 50 - 64 became significantly more likely to report that they had personal information stolen ; while 11 % said they had this experience in July , that figure jumped to 20 % in January . Increases among other age groups were not statistically significant .
When it comes to each country 's relationship with Russia , both Americans and Germans agree it is better to maintain the bilateral relationship than to be close with Russia . But compared with 2019 , more Germans express a desire to be closer with the U.S. than with Russia , when roughly four-in-ten chose the U.S. and three-in-ten volunteered `` both . ''
There are similar differences among typology groups in opinions about more gays and lesbians raising children . While 40 % of Solid Liberals view this trend as good thing for society , just 9 % of Hard-Pressed Democrats and 10 % of New Coalition Democrats agree .
A plurality of women ( 48 % ) say they work in places where there are more women than men , while 18 % say there are more men than women , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Similarly , 44 % of men say their workplace is majority-male , and 19 % say women outnumber men . About a third of women ( 33 % ) and men ( 36 % ) say both genders are about equally represented in their workplace .
Older Americans traditionally turn out to vote at higher rates than younger adults . In the 2016 presidential election , roughly a quarter of voters ( 27 % ) were ages 65 and older , according to a Center analysis of validated voters . In contrast , only 9 % of nonvoters were in this age group .
Finally , on the topic of immigration , Americans and Germans diverge somewhat about whether they want more , less or about the same level of immigration to their country . A plurality of Americans want to keep immigration levels about the same as they have been , with 24 % wanting more immigrants in their country and 29 % wanting fewer immigrants or none at all ( `` None '' is a volunteered category ) .
Overall , 73 % of African American internet users—and 96 % of those ages 18 - 29—use a social networking site of some kind . African Americans have exhibited relatively high levels of Twitter use since we began tracking the service as a stand-alone platform , and this continues to be the case—22 % of online blacks are Twitter users , compared with 16 % of online whites . Younger African Americans in particular have especially high rates of Twitter use . Fully 40 % of 18 - 29 year old African Americans who use the internet say that they use Twitter . That is 12 percentage points higher than the comparable figure for young whites ( 28 % of whom are Twitter users ) .
Among the recent downloaders Nielsen surveyed , game apps were the most downloaded apps overall in terms of both volume and the percent of adults who had downloaded them .2 In terms of actual apps use , six in ten of Nielsen 's recent downloaders ( 60 % ) said they had used a game app in the past 30 days , and roughly half said they had used a news/weather app ( 52 % ) , a map/navigation app ( 51 % ) , or a social networking app ( 47 % ) in that same timeframe . While music apps ranked second on the most downloaded list , they ranked fifth on the most used list .
Despite these sentiments , Canadians tend to believe that China , and not the U.S. , is the world 's leading economic power . A 46 % plurality of Canadians say that China is the top economy , while just 34 % name the U.S. French-speaking Canadians ( 58 % ) and followers of the NDP ( 57 % ) are more likely to name China as the world 's leading economy , compared with English speakers ( 43 % ) and both Liberals ( 44 % ) and CPC supporters ( 40 % ) .
The economic crisis and the administration 's response continued to be the top stories last week in terms of both public interest and media coverage . About a third of Americans ( 34 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other story last week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Feb. 27-March 2 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Another 23 % list President Obama 's budget proposal – with its mix of priority shifts and new spending to address current and longer-term concerns – as their top story of the week .
Regionally , Russia 's reputation is least favorable in Europe and North America . A full 63 % of Americans and 59 % of Canadians hold negative views of Russia . In Europe , a median of 61 % feel the same , with anti-Russian sentiment particularly intense in the Netherlands ( 82 % ) and Sweden ( 78 % ) . In the Middle East , majorities in Jordan ( 93 % ) , Turkey ( 62 % ) and Israel ( 61 % ) hold negative views of Russia . Anti-Russian sentiment in Jordan has nearly doubled over the past decade – intensifying even before Russia 's involvement in the Syrian conflict .
The negotiations between the U.S. and North Korea are resonating more among Republicans than Democrats . More than half ( 54 % ) of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they have heard a lot about the U.S.-North Korea talks , compared with 39 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
These views are similar to attitudes about U.S. relations with Cuba in July 2015 , following the decision to renew diplomatic ties . At that time , 73 % approved of the re-establishment of U.S diplomatic relations with Cuba , and 72 % favored an end to the trade embargo .
As President Obama and Democratic leaders mounted what was characterized as the final push to pass health care reform legislation last week , the public followed the health care debate more closely than any other major story ( 33 % say they followed this story most closely ) . The debate also topped media coverage .
The seven columns on the left side of the chart show how the white share of the vote for president has steadily declined over the past quarter century . The two columns on the right show the racial composition of the population now and in 2060 , as projected by the Census Bureau . A couple of patterns stand out . First , whites were 74 % of voters last year at a time when they were just 63 % of the population . This racial turnout gap is driven by the fact that a disproportionate share of non-whites are either too young to vote , not eligible to vote ( because they 're not citizens ) , or just do n't vote . All of these factors could change over time .
Generally , those who are most concerned about Zika include older adults , especially older women , and those who report `` fair '' or `` poor '' health status . For instance , 44 % of women ages 50 and older think Zika is a major threat to the U.S. population as a whole , compared with 33 % of older men . By contrast , 23 % of adults under age 50 consider Zika a major threat to the population . Additionally , 42 % of those who report being in `` fair '' or `` poor '' health feel it is a major threat vs. 27 % of those who say they are in `` excellent '' or `` very good '' health .
But when asked which story they followed most closely this week , news coming from Iraq remains the clear priority . By more than three-to-one ( 26 % vs. 7 % ) a larger share cite events in Iraq rather than the policy debate at home as the single topic they followed most closely . Despite limited coverage , there remains a core audience for news about Anna Nicole Smith ; 16 % of Americans followed reports on Ms. Smith 's autopsy results the most closely – a story which filled only 2 % of the newshole this past week . Overall , roughly twice as many people focused on this story as focused on reports about the 2008 campaign or on the Iraq policy debate in Washington , even though each of the last two stories received three-times the press coverage .
News reports last week about the escalating conflict between Israel and Hamas competed for public attention with stories about the U.S. financial crisis and the Obama presidential transition . Roughly three-in-ten ( 28 % ) paid very close attention to news about renewed fighting in the Gaza Strip , while 18 % say this was the single news story they followed most closely . Still , in a week in which the media devoted more space to Middle East coverage than any other story , Americans remained most focused on the continuing economic crisis . Public interest in the first days of the latest Middle East conflict is on par with other recent foreign news stories , but is lower than interest in the Israel-Hezbollah war in August 2006 : 40 % followed news of that conflict very closely . It is important to note that the current survey was already in the field when Israel launched its ground invasion on Jan. 3 , ratcheting up the intensity of the conflict and the media coverage . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , reports from the Middle East led all news coverage last week , accounting for 21 % of the newshole .1
Among parents under 50 , four-in-ten say they 're not likely to have more kids in the future because they just do n't want to , while 30 % point to some other reason for not expecting to have more kids , according to the survey . Among childless adults under 50 , meanwhile , around a quarter ( 23 % ) say they 're unlikely to have children in the future because they just do n't want to , while 14 % name some other reason for not expecting to have kids .
Americans ages 50 and older are more likely to pay for local news than their younger counterparts . Around three-in-ten ( 29 % ) of those ages 65 and older and 15 % of those 50 to 64 say they have paid a local news organization in the past year . By comparison , just 9 % of those ages 30 to 49 and 7 % of those 18 to 29 say they have done so . White Americans and those with a college education are also more likely to pay for local news than their counterparts . For example , a little over two-in-ten Americans with a college degree ( 22 % ) say they have paid for local news in the past year , compared with 13 % of those with some college education and just one-in-ten of those with a high school diploma or less .
Further , Clinton and Trump supporters have vastly different beliefs about the causes of climate change . A large majority of Clinton supporters ( 70 % ) say the Earth is warming mostly because of human activity , but just 22 % of Trump supporters share that view . Nearly half of Trump supporters ( 47 % ) say the Earth is warming because of natural patterns , and three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say there is no solid evidence the Earth is warming .
Some had difficulties with their tablets . Pew Research Center surveys have shown over time that later adopters of the internet often say they need help with their new devices . Not surprisingly , a share of these new users struggled with the device . Seven-in-ten called tech support to get help with the tablet , and 43 % experienced login or password issues . Nearly a third ( 32 % ) reported that it was a challenge learning how to use the touch screen . And 14 % said it was a challenge to keep the tablet charged .
The candidate who finished second to Morsi in last June 's presidential runoff election , Ahmed Shafik , is generally viewed negatively . About half ( 52 % ) have an unfavorable opinion of Shafik , a former air force commander who served as Mubarak 's final prime minister ; 45 % rate him positively . Meanwhile , the Salafist al-Nour Party , which came in second in Egypt 's first parliamentary elections after the revolution , is viewed favorably by just four-in-ten Egyptians . These are among the key findings from a nationwide survey of Egypt by the Pew Research Center . Face-to-face interviews were conducted with 1,000 adults in Egypt from March 3 to March 23 . As the poll reveals , in many ways , ideological and partisan divides are growing sharper in Egypt . In particular , supporters of the opposition NSF see the state of the country quite differently from supporters of the FJP and the al-Nour Party . Those with a favorable view of the NSF are more likely to express dissatisfaction with the country 's direction , oppose the constitution , and believe the next national elections will be unfair ; they are also especially likely to value democracy over stability .
In recent months , mask-wearing has become a partisan issue . This partisan divide is also found in the behaviors of the general public : Democrats and those who lean Democratic are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say they personally wore a mask all or most of the time in the past month ( 76 % vs. 53 % ) . Even after controlling for differences in the COVID-19 health impact in the communities where people live , Democrats are more likely to say they personally wear a mask all or most of the time .
Today , about eight-in-ten Latino , black and white adults who are online use at least one of five social media sites – Facebook , Instagram , Pinterest , LinkedIn and Twitter . Among these , Facebook stands out as the most widely used platform , regardless of race or ethnicity : About seven-in-ten adult internet users ( 71 % ) say they use the site . But there are differences by race and ethnicity in the use of other social media sites , in particular Instagram . The photo-sharing site is more popular among Hispanic and black internet users than among white internet users . About one-third ( 34 % ) of online Hispanics use Instagram , as do 38 % of blacks . By comparison , only 21 % of whites use the network . By contrast , the social media site Pinterest is more popular among white internet users than among other groups . About one-third ( 32 % ) of whites use Pinterest , compared with 21 % of Hispanics and just 12 % of blacks . LinkedIn differs in that about equal shares of whites ( 29 % ) and blacks ( 28 % ) use the site , compared with 18 % of Hispanics . Meanwhile , Twitter has a more equal distribution . About one-in-four Hispanics and blacks use the site , along with 21 % of whites .
More than four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 45 % ) say that scientific experts usually make better policy decisions than other people , while a similar share ( 48 % ) says such decisions are neither better nor worse than other people 's and 7 % say scientific experts ' decisions are usually worse than other people 's . Here , too , Democrats tend to hold scientific experts in higher esteem than do Republicans : 54 % of Democrats say scientists ' policy decisions are usually better than those of other people , while two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) say that scientists ' decisions are either no different from or worse than other people 's .
English use is on the rise among young Hispanics . Still , about six-in-ten say they use Spanish , according to Pew Research Center 's 2016 National Survey of Latinos , which asked Hispanics to rate their own ability to speak and read Spanish and to speak and read English . Similar shares of young Hispanic adults are either English dominant ( 41 % ) or bilingual ( 40 % ) , while 19 % are Spanish dominant . By contrast , among Hispanics ages 36 and older , a lower share is English dominant ( 24 % ) , with higher shares rating themselves bilingual ( 32 % ) and Spanish dominant ( 44 % ) . Many young Hispanic adults heard Spanish spoken at home while they were growing up , and today they speak Spanish to their children . About 86 % of young Hispanic adults said Spanish was spoken in their home when they were growing up , similar to the share of older Hispanics who said the same ( 93 % ) , according to the 2015 survey . Among young Hispanic adults who are parents , 86 % say they speak Spanish to their children , with a similar share of older Hispanic parents ( 85 % ) saying the same .
Some 84 % of American households contain at least one smartphone , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2016 . Desktop and laptop computers are nearly as common – 80 % of households contain at least one of these devices . Tablet computer ownership is somewhat less widespread , with 68 % of households containing at least one tablet . And 39 % of households contain at least one streaming media device , such as an Apple TV , Roku or Google Chromecast .
More than 80 % of the public polls used to track key indicators of U.S. public opinion , such as the President 's approval rating or support for Democratic presidential candidates , are conducted using online opt-in polling .1 A new study by Pew Research Center finds that online polls conducted with widely-used opt-in sources contain small but measurable shares of bogus respondents ( about 4 % to 7 % , depending on the source ) . Critically , these bogus respondents are not just answering at random , but rather they tend to select positive answer choices – introducing a small , systematic bias into estimates like presidential approval . This pattern is not partisan . While 78 % of bogus respondents reported approving of President Donald Trump 's job performance , their approval rating of the 2010 health care law , also known as Obamacare , was even higher , at 84 % . Open-ended answers show that some respondents answer as though they are taking a market research survey ( e.g. , saying `` Great product '' regardless of the question ) .
Public interest in economic news soared last week amid continued stock market volatility and concerns about a possible recession . More than four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely and 20 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . That marks the highest level of public interest in economic news in five years . Interest was only somewhat greater during the recession of the early 1990s . When asked what one economic or financial problem they have been hearing the most about in the news recently , a plurality of Americans point to problems with the housing market . More than three-in-ten ( 31 % ) mention the sub-prime mortgage crisis , the increasing number of home foreclosures or falling home values . This is more than twice the percentage citing any other economic problem , and more than five times the number who cited the stock market during a week when the market lost more than 500 points .
Nonetheless , many Pakistanis endorse extreme views about law , religion and society . More than eight-in-ten support segregating men and women in the workplace , stoning adulterers , and whipping and cutting off the hands of thieves . Roughly three-in-four endorse the death penalty for those who leave Islam .
They also respond in largely similar ways when asked which specific elements of the story constitute harassment . Very few Americans think that John 's initial social media argument constitutes online harassment , but sizable majorities agree that John experiences harassment when he receives vulgar messages with racially insulting language ( 82 % ) , when his picture is edited to include racially insensitive images ( 80 % ) , and when he receives personal threats ( 82 % ) . And as with the case of the scenario involving sexual content , Americans have a somewhat different threshold for behavior that constitutes online harassment as opposed to behavior that deserves a response by the social media platform hosting that behavior . For instance , 80 % of Americans think it constitutes online harassment when people begin posting pictures of John that include racially insensitive imagery , but 57 % think that the social media service should have stepped in to address that behavior .
Contrary to their attitudes about what their own country should do , widespread majorities of most NATO publics believe the U.S. would use military force to defend a fellow NATO country . Poles stand out as less certain that the U.S. would come to an ally 's aid ( 49 % would , 31 % would not ) .
These findings are based on the most recent installment of the weekly News Interest Index , an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The index , building on the Center 's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories , examines news interest as it relates to the news media 's agenda . The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism 's News Coverage Index , which monitors the news reported by major newspaper , television , radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis . In the most recent week , data relating to news coverage was collected from April 7 - 13 and survey data measuring public interest in the top news stories of the week was collected April 11 - 14 from a nationally representative sample of 1,003 adults . The Iraq policy debate was back in the news last week , as Gen. David Petraeus delivered his latest progress report on the war to members of Congress . The national news media devoted 10 % of its coverage to the Iraq policy debate and another 4 % to events on the ground in Iraq . Roughly one-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) paid very close attention to Petraeus ' appearance before Congress . Just 6 % listed news about Petraeus as the single story they followed more closely than any other last week – ranking it fifth among the top six stories of the week .
Our analysis of Federal Reserve data does reveal a stark divide in the experiences of white , black and Hispanic households during the economic recovery . From 2010 to 2013 , the median wealth of non-Hispanic white households increased from $ 138,600 to $ 141,900 , or by 2.4 % .
Parents of teenagers express similar levels of concern as teens themselves , with 63 % saying they are at least somewhat worried about the possibility of a shooting happening at their child 's school . And there are similar patterns when it comes to race and gender , with nonwhite parents and mothers expressing more concern . Lower-income parents are particularly worried – in fact , 82 % of parents with annual household incomes under $ 30,000 say they are at least somewhat worried that a shooting could happen at their teen 's school , compared with 64 % of those with incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 74,999 and 53 % of those with incomes of $ 75,000 or more .
There is little support across European publics to allow more immigrants to move to their countries . A median of 51 % across the European countries surveyed believe their country should allow fewer immigrants into their country or none at all . Publics are somewhat divided over the impact of immigration on crime , but a median of 57 % say that immigration increases the risk of terrorism and a median of 51 % say immigrants want to remain distinct from the broader society . However , a median of 53 % say that migrants make the country stronger through their hard work and talents .
Nearly eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) say they heard at least a little about a warning by the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) that caffeinated alcoholic beverages are unsafe . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they heard a lot about this , while 37 % say they heard a little .
About half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) say foods containing genetically modified ( GM ) ingredients are worse for one 's health than foods containing no GM ingredients , while a slightly smaller share ( 44 % ) thinks foods with GM ingredients are neither better nor worse for one 's health . Only 5 % say GM foods are better for one 's health .
But even as most parents are confident they can educate their child about proper online conduct , notable shares are concerned about the types of negative experiences their teen might encounter online . Roughly six-in-ten parents say they worry at least somewhat about their teen being harassed or bullied online ( 59 % ) or sending or receiving explicit images ( 57 % ) . In each case , about one-in-four parents say they worry a lot about one of these things happening to their child . These parental concerns tend to vary by race and ethnicity , as well as by a child 's gender . Among parents , whites and Hispanics are more likely than blacks to say they worry about their teen being cyberbullied . Hispanic parents also are more inclined than black parents to say they worry about their child exchanging explicit images . At the same time , parents of teen girls are somewhat more likely than those with a teenage boy to say they worry about their teen being bullied online ( 64 % vs. 54 % ) or exchanging explicit images ( 64 % vs. 51 % ) . ( For details on these parental concerns by demographic group , see Appendix A . )
Among those who know that most immigrants in the U.S. are here legally , a large 77 % -majority says that undocumented immigrants are no more likely to commit serious crimes than American citizens . By contrast , a smaller share of those who think most immigrants are here illegally ( 53 % ) say undocumented immigrants are no more likely to commit serious crimes . This relationship is seen within both parties . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , most of those who believe the majority of immigrants are in the U.S. legally ( 60 % ) think undocumented immigrants are no more likely to commit serious crimes than American citizens . Among Republicans who incorrectly think most immigrants are here illegally , 52 % say undocumented immigrants are more likely to commit serious crimes , compared with 38 % who say they are not .
When asked about some specific ways they might have used their cellphone during their most recent social gathering , a majority of cell owners indicated they used their phone to send or read a message , take photos or videos , or receive an incoming call . Fewer used their phones for such things as checking to see if they had any alerts , placing a call , using an app , or searching or browsing the web . In all , 89 % of cellphone owners reported using their phone in at least one of these eight ways during their most recent social gathering .
As in the past , young people view the ACA more positively than do older adults . Among those younger than 30 , about as many approve ( 50 % ) as disapprove ( 47 % ) of the health care law . Among older age groups , more disapprove than approve .
While majorities of both Democrats and Republicans say schools have the responsibility to provide computers to at least some students , there are partisan differences when it comes to whether this should be available to all students . Democrats and the independents who lean Democratic are more likely than Republicans and their leaners to say schools have this responsibility to all students ( 45 % vs. 28 % ) .
Among the 38 countries surveyed , South Korea is the most likely to say that the U.S. is the leading economic power ( 66 % ) , followed closely by Japan ( 62 % ) . Roughly half say the U.S. is the world 's economic leader in Israel ( 52 % ) , Vietnam ( 51 % ) , Hungary ( 51 % ) and the U.S. itself ( 51 % ) .
About six-in-ten women in the U.S. ( 59 % ) say they have been sexually harassed . Women with at least some college education are far more likely than those with less education to say they have experienced harassment . Non-Hispanic white women are also more likely than women in other racial and ethnic groups to cite such experiences . Around a quarter of men ( 27 % ) say they have been sexually harassed .
Among the eight issues included in the survey , people seemed most comfortable with the practice of using contraceptives . Only a median of 14 % across the 40 countries said that using contraceptives ( we did not specify exactly what kind of contraceptive ) was morally wrong , while 54 % said they personally believed it was acceptable . A further 21 % said it was not a moral issue . Only in Pakistan , Nigeria and Ghana did half or more say contraceptives were immoral .
But the Japanese public has a mixed view of the trajectory of Japan 's role in the world . Only about a quarter ( 24 % ) believes Japan plays a more important role in the world today compared with 10 years ago . About a third ( 34 % ) says Japan plays a less important role . And 39 % hold the view that Japan 's role is about as important today as it was a decade ago . ( In comparison , 21 % of Americans and 75 % of Chinese think their country is more important . )
Democrats rate their party better than Republicans when it comes to representing their views on the issue of illegal immigration . About half ( 51 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners say their party is doing a good job representing their views . Just 34 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say this about the GOP . Overall , 83 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners support a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants . Among this group , 55 % say the party is doing a good job representing their views on this issue ; 38 % say it is not . Democrats who oppose a path to legal status ( 16 % of all Democrats and Democratic leaners ) are more critical of their party : Just 30 % say the party does a good job of reflecting their views , while 70 % say it does not . On the Republican side , both supporters and opponents of legal status for undocumented immigrants think the GOP is not doing a good job representing their views . Republicans and Republican leaners who oppose legal status are somewhat more negative about the party on this issue ( 65 % bad job vs. 30 % good job ) than those who support a pathway to legal status ( 55 % bad vs. 36 % good ) .
Exposure to false or incorrect information is a key concern for people in 11 emerging economies , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . Many social media users report being regularly exposed to misinformation when using the platforms . In most countries surveyed , more than a quarter of social media and messaging app users say they frequently encounter this sort of content , and majorities in 10 of the 11 countries say they see it at least occasionally .
As the Winter Olympics get underway in Sochi , Russia , 18 % are following news about the games very closely .
When asked which is the biggest threat to their country , India , the Taliban , or al Qaeda , a majority of Pakistanis ( 57 % ) say India .
Just 17 % of Americans say that `` many of the country 's problems could be dealt with more effectively if U.S. presidents did n't have to worry so much about Congress or the courts , '' while 77 % take the view that `` it would be too risky to give U.S. presidents more power to deal directly with many of the country 's problems '' – including sizable majorities of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 87 % ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( 65 % ) .
The U.S. receives higher favorable ratings in Africa than in any other region . Our 2015 survey found mostly positive ratings for the U.S. around the globe , but they were especially high in Africa – across the nine nations surveyed in the region , a median of 79 % expressed a favorable opinion of the U.S. , while just 10 % had an unfavorable view . Key elements of American soft power are embraced in Africa . As our 2013 survey highlighted , publics in the region tend to express positive attitudes toward American science and technology , ways of doing business , ideas about democracy , and popular culture . Moreover , a median of 56 % said it was good that American ideas and customs were spreading to their country – a higher percentage than in the other regions where we asked this question in 2012 and 2013 .
Despite the long-term optimism that exists in many countries , there are widespread concerns about inequality . Majorities in all of the 44 nations polled say the gap between rich and poor is a big problem facing their countries , and majorities in 28 nations identify this as a very big problem . More than seven-in-ten hold this view in Greece , Spain and Italy – countries that faced significant economic challenges during the last several years . But even in the emerging and developing nations that have enjoyed tremendous growth over the last couple of decades , there is a consensus that those at the top are reaping the gains while others are being left behind .1
The public 's concerns about possible consequences from drone attacks also are little changed from two years ago . Overall , 48 % say they are very concerned that U.S. drone strikes endanger the lives of innocent civilians , while another 32 % say they are somewhat concerned about this . Earlier this year , two hostages , including one American , were killed by a U.S. drone strike targeting an al Qaeda compound along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border . The public expresses less concern over other potential consequences of U.S. drone attacks . About three-in-ten or fewer say they are very concerned U.S. strikes could lead to retaliation from extremist groups ( 31 % ) , that they are being conducted legally ( 29 % ) or that they could damage America 's reputation around the world ( 24 % ) .
In a fall 2018 survey , 69 % of Americans favored allowing people convicted of felonies to vote after serving their sentences . Black adults were much more likely than white adults to somewhat or strongly favor this approach ( 83 % vs. 68 % ) .
Far fewer Americans – 10 % – say they believe social media has a mostly positive effect on the way things are going in the country today . When those who hold these positive views were asked about the main reason why they thought this , one-quarter say these sites help people stay informed and aware ( 25 % ) and about one-in-ten say they allow for communication , connection and community-building ( 12 % ) .
Since March , the share of all registered voters who say it is more important for a presidential candidate to have `` new ideas and a different approach '' has surged – with virtually all of the increase coming among Republican and Republican-leaning voters . Today , by more than two-to-one ( 65 % to 29 % ) , Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say it is more important that a candidate have new ideas than `` experience and a proven record . '' Just five months ago , GOP voters valued experience and a proven record over new ideas , 57 % to 36 % . Opinion among Democratic voters continues to be more evenly divided : 50 % say it is more important for a candidate to have experience and a proven record , while 42 % view new ideas and a different approach as more important . This is little changed from March ( 46 % experience , 49 % new ideas ) .
Most Americans have heard about the U.S. government 's surveillance programs , and some have changed their behavior because of it . Fully 87 % are aware of the federal surveillance programs ; among those aware of the programs , 25 % – and 22 % of adults overall – say they have changed the way they use technology at least somewhat after the Snowden revelations , according to our November 2014-January 2015 survey . Additionally , 61 % of those aware of the programs say they have become less confident that the programs are serving the public interest .
A Pew Research Center survey of 1,197 lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender adults conducted this spring found that workplace discrimination is one of the most important policy issues in the LGBT community , with 57 % of LGBT adults saying that equal employment rights should be a `` top priority . ''
The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 30-Dec. 5 among 1,502 adults , finds that 45 % expect Obama to be remembered as an above average or outstanding president , while 26 % expect he will be viewed as average , and about as many ( 27 % ) say he 'll be seen as a below average or poor president . Obama fares well when compared with past presidents . Expectations for Obama 's historical record are far more positive than those of George W. Bush at the end of his term ( when 57 % predicted that he would be remembered as a below average or poor president ) , and are roughly on par with views of Bill Clinton when he left office .
Turks generally have negative opinions of major Western countries , especially the United States . Only 12 % of Turks have a favorable view of the U.S. , down from 30 % two years ago . American foreign policy is extremely unpopular — 70 % say the Iraq war , which Turkey fears will further embolden its own Kurdish minority , has made the world more dangerous and 77 % oppose the U.S.-led war on terrorism . However , France does not fare much better — 61 % say they have an unfavorable view of France , while only 18 % hold a favorable opinion . Germany , home to a large number of Turkish immigrants , receives somewhat more positive marks , with Turks divided between those with favorable ( 43 % ) and unfavorable ( 41 % ) opinions .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness .
Iran is viewed negatively by people in many countries around the world . In a survey of 14 advanced economies from this summer , a median of about seven-in-ten expressed unfavorable views of Iran , while only about two-in-ten hold a favorable view . A median of roughly one-in-ten expressed no opinion . In all 14 countries surveyed , majorities had negative impressions of Iran .
Along with asking about usage of mobile messaging apps , the survey also tracked usage of a variety of social media platforms and online forums . Among the key findings : The analysis in this report is based on telephone interviews conducted March 17 , 2015 through April 12 , 2015 among a national sample of 1,907 adults , 18 years of age or older , living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia . 672 respondents were interviewed on a landline telephone , and 1,235 were interviewed on a cell phone , including 730 who had no landline telephone . Of the full sample , 1,612 are internet users . The margin of sampling error for results based on the full sample is plus or minus 2.6 percentage points . Because many items were based on half samples , results based on internet users in this report have a margin of sampling error of either plus or minus 3.9 percentage points or plus or minus 4.0 percentage points . Results based on smartphone owners have a margin of error of plus or minus 4.6 percentage points . See the Methods section at the end of this report for more details .
Nonetheless , despite the prevalence of negative opinions about the U.S. , most Pakistanis want better relations between the two countries . Nearly two-in-three ( 64 % ) say it is important for relations with the U.S. to improve , up from 53 % last year .
Moreover , there is considerable evidence that the opinion many Muslims have of the United States has gone beyond mere loathing . In this year 's Pew survey , majorities in seven of eight predominantly Muslims nations believe the U.S. may someday threaten their country — including 71 % in Turkey and 58 % in Lebanon . And Muslims are increasingly hostile to Americans as well as America ; in the past , as the 1983 Newsweek survey showed , people did not let their distaste for U.S. policies affect their view of the American people . In addition , an overwhelming percentage in most Muslim nations — and as many as half or more in countries like Brazil and South Korea — said they were disappointed that the Iraqi military put up so little resistance in the war against the United States .
In all 10 advanced and emerging economies polled , large majorities say that in the next 50 years robots and computers will probably or definitely do much of the work currently done by humans . In three countries – Greece , South Africa and Argentina – four-in-ten or more believe this will definitely happen .
Seven-in-ten women see online harassment as a major problem . A January Pew Research Center survey asked Americans about online harassment , which was defined using six categories of behavior : offensive name-calling , purposeful embarrassment , physical threats , stalking , sexual harassment , or harassment over a sustained period of time . Women were more likely than men to view online harassment as a major problem ( 70 % vs. 54 % ) . Women were also more likely than men to say offensive content online is too often dismissed as not a big deal ( 50 % vs. 35 % ) and to say people should be able to feel welcome and safe in online spaces ( 63 % vs. 43 % ) .
Shifting attitudes toward China are colored , in part , by the context of the continued trade frictions and tariffs between the United States and China . Today , just over half of Americans ( 53 % ) believe current economic ties between the U.S. and China are bad . Fewer ( 41 % ) think economic relations between the two nations are good , with just 2 % of American adults saying ties are very good . Partisanship is associated with views of the U.S.-China economic relationship : While 49 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents see current ties as good , around one-third ( 36 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents share this view . And , despite having more favorable views of China , younger Americans ( ages 18 to 29 ) are about as likely as those 50 and older to have negative views of current economic relations with China ( 58 % and 53 % , respectively , say ties are bad ) .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say that people who go to public places in their communities where they may be near others should wear masks most of the time or always . An additional 17 % say that masks should be worn `` some of the time '' in these situations and 12 % say they should rarely or never be worn . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are about twice as likely as Republicans and Republican leaners to say that masks should be worn always ( 63 % vs. 29 % ) . Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say that masks should rarely or never be worn ( 23 % vs. 4 % ) .
At the same time , the public has shifted the emphasis it assigns to two major policy issues : dealing with the nation 's energy problem and reducing the budget deficit . About half ( 49 % ) say that dealing with the nation 's energy problem should be a top priority , down from 60 % a year ago . At the same time , there has been a modest rise in the percentage saying that reducing the budget deficit should be a top priority , from 53 % to 60 % . More than six-in-ten Americans say securing the Social Security system ( 66 % ) and securing the Medicare system ( 63 % ) should be top priorities for Obama and Congress . About as many ( 65 % ) say that improving the educational system should be a top policy priority . For all three items , public evaluations are not significantly different than they were one year ago .
This Sunday 's presidential election in Ukraine may do little to unite a nation riven by ongoing separatist movements in the country 's east , and haunted by the March secession of Crimea . Our April survey found that businessman Petro Poroshenko , the leading candidate – according to a local poll conducted earlier this month – is much more popular in the country 's west than in the east , where doubts are widespread not only about the candidates but the fairness of the election itself . Our poll , conducted before the list of presidential candidates had been finalized , found that Poroshenko was the most liked among four contenders tested . Overall , a modest majority of Ukrainians ( 54 % ) gave Poroshenko a favorable rating . By comparison , only three-in-ten offered a positive view of the country 's first female prime minister , Yulia Tymoshenko ( 30 % ) , and nationalist politician Oleg Tyagnibok ( 30 % ) . Even fewer ( 15 % ) were favorable toward Mykhaylo Dobkin , former governor of Ukraine 's eastern Kharkiv region .
When asked whether men or women are better at dealing with a variety of policy areas , ranging from social issues like education and health care to gun policy or national security , a majority of Americans said men and women were equally capable . To the extent that the public saw a difference , more gave women the edge when it comes to dealing with social issues , while men were seen as better at dealing with national security and defense .
The increase in employment in the first quarter of 2007 is below the trend for the most recent period of robust industry expansion that preceded it as well as for the average of the previous three years ( Figure 7 ) . From the beginning of 2004 through the end of 2006 , the employment of foreign-born Latinos in the construction industry increased by an average of 286,000 persons on an annual basis as measured from one quarter or to the same quarter in the previous year . In 2006 , for example , employment was up by 424,000 in the second quarter , 341,000 in the third quarter and 370,000 in the fourth quarter compared to the same quarters in 2005 . In the first quarter of 2007 the increase was 230,000 compared to the first quarter of 2006 .
One area where there were significant differences was survey items relating to technology . The nine out of 406 survey items that have a difference of at least 5 percentage points between the full sample and the Web sample are related to internet or technology use . There is a 13-point difference in daily internet use between the Web-only sample ( 82 % ) and of the total sample ( 69 % ) . About eight-in-ten of Americans in the Web-only sample said they had sent email or texts to friends or family the day before , compared with about seven-in-ten in the total sample . Fully 90 % in the Web-only sample own a desktop or laptop , compared with 80 % in the total sample .
In one of the survey 's most striking findings , majorities in Indonesia , Turkey , Egypt , and Jordan say that they do not believe groups of Arabs carried out the Sept. 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks . The percentage of Turks expressing disbelief that Arabs carried out the 9/11 attacks has increased from 43 % in a 2002 Gallup survey to 59 % currently . And this attitude is not limited to Muslims in predominantly Muslim countries – 56 % of British Muslims say they do not believe Arabs carried out the terror attacks against the U.S. , compared with just 17 % who do .
Americans also see local news outlets as more credible sources of COVID-19 information than the news media in general . In a survey conducted June 4 - 10 , half of U.S. adults said their local news media get the facts right about the coronavirus outbreak almost all or most of the time , compared with 44 % who said the same about the news media overall . Similarly , about half of Americans ( 53 % ) said their state and local governments get the facts right about COVID-19 all or most of the time . Black Americans are more likely than other adults to turn to local news organizations and to trust them to get the facts right about COVID-19 . This aligns with two other , broader trends : Black Americans are more closely following COVID-19 news topics , and they are also more likely to be interested in local news and to trust information from local news organizations more generally .
Employment is rising more rapidly in jobs in which social and fundamental skills are most important . From 1980 to 2018 , overall employment more than doubled in jobs where social and fundamental skills are most important , by 111 % and 104 % , respectively . ( Examples of such jobs are social workers , lawyers and obstetricians . ) Employment in jobs most in need of analytical skills , such as computer programmers , increased nearly as sharply ( 92 % ) , compared with an increase of 58 % in employment overall . Meanwhile , there was virtually no change in employment in jobs relying most on mechanical skills ( only 4 % ) . That is at least in part due to globalization and technological change , which have sharply reduced job opportunities in the manufacturing sector and the need for mechanical skills .
Nearly two-thirds ( 63 % ) of consistent conservatives and about half ( 49 % ) of consistent liberals say most of their close friends share their political views . Among those with mixed ideological values , just 25 % say the same . People on the right and left also are more likely to say it is important to them to live in a place where most people share their political views , though again , that desire is more widespread on the right ( 50 % ) than on the left ( 35 % ) .
Explicitly anti-social behavior while in public is considerably less common . Some 23 % of cellphone owners say that when they are in public spaces they use their phone to avoid interacting with others who are nearby at least on occasion . Of course , those around the cellphone user may still experience various uses of cellphones as anti-social , even if that was not the intention of the user .
Overall , men have a more positive outlook than women have when it comes to the impact of future technological and scientific developments . Fully 67 % of men ( compared with 51 % of women ) said that technological changes will lead to a future where people 's lives are mostly better . Meanwhile , 36 % of women ( compared with 25 % of men ) expect those changes to make society worse . These gender differences are especially pronounced among Americans with high levels of income and education . For example , men with an annual household income of $ 75,000 or more are overwhelmingly positive—80 % expect changes in technology to make life better , while just 9 % expect them to make life worse . Conversely , women in this same income group are much more divided on this question—just over half ( 55 % ) expect a better future thanks to technology , but a third ( 32 % ) envision a negative impact .
More than four-in-ten Millennials ( currently ages 22 to 37 ) are Hispanic ( 21 % ) , African American ( 13 % ) , Asian ( 7 % ) or another race ( 3 % ) . Among Gen Xers , 39 % are nonwhites .
While the national media divided its time last week among a host of major news stories , the public remained intensely focused on the situation in Iraq . Fully 36 % of Americans paid very closely attention to events in Iraq and 35 % said this was the news story they followed more closely than any other . Another 12 % of the public listed the debate over Iraq policy as the story they followed most closely . News coverage of Iraq focused primarily on events on the ground , while the policy debate took a back seat . In previous weeks , the policy debate has received more media coverage than the situation in Iraq . However , dramatic events , including the capture of three American soldiers , altered the balance of coverage .
Nationwide , 58 % of Cuban registered voters say they affiliate with or lean toward the Republican Party , while 38 % identify with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 . By comparison , around two-thirds of Hispanic voters who are not Cuban ( 65 % ) identify as or lean Democratic , while 32 % affiliate with the Republican Party .
When it comes to presidential elections , there are fewer competitive counties , and more counties in which Democrats or Republicans hold overwhelming vote advantages , than at any time in the past three decades or so – on-the-ground evidence of the heightened partisan polarization that characterizes U.S. politics today . In the 2012 election , there were only 275 counties – less than 9 % of all counties and county-equivalents in the nation – in which fewer than 5 percentage points separated Democrat Barack Obama and Republican Mitt Romney , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of county-level voting data . That was the fewest closely contested counties since Ronald Reagan 's landslide re-election in 1984 .
Overall , 77 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say they agree with their own party 's policies to deal with illegal immigration . A slightly smaller majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 70 % ) say they agree with the Democratic Party 's policies on the issue . In addition , a greater share of Republicans ( 54 % ) than Democrats ( 37 % ) say they strongly agree with their own party 's stance on illegal immigration . Among Republicans , conservatives ( 85 % ) are more likely to agree with their party 's positions on illegal immigration than moderates and liberals ( 64 % ) . Similarly , a larger share of liberal Democrats ( 82 % ) than conservative and moderate Democrats ( 61 % ) agree with their own party 's positions on the issue .
White police officers and their black colleagues have starkly different views on fundamental questions regarding the situation of blacks in American society , the 2016 survey found . For example , nearly all white officers ( 92 % ) – but only 29 % of their black colleagues – said the U.S. had made the changes needed to assure equal rights for blacks .
On balance , people across the former Soviet bloc nations approve of the changeover to a multiparty electoral system and free market economy . Majorities in Poland , the Czech Republic , Slovakia , Hungary , Lithuania and the area corresponding to former East Germany all rate these transitions favorably .
Roughly three-quarters of Americans ( 74 % ) think the impact of major technology companies on their own lives has been more good than bad , while 24 % say the opposite . When asked about the broader societal impact , a majority of Americans continue to feel positively , but the share saying the good outweighs the bad falls to 63 % . And 36 % of Americans say the impact of these companies on society as a whole has on balance been more bad than good .
Two-thirds of Americans ( 67 % ) say everything possible should be done to make it easy for every citizen to vote , but Republicans – especially conservative Republicans – are less likely to hold this view , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . While Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 84 % ) overwhelmingly say everything possible should be done to make it easy to vote , Republicans and GOP leaners are split : Nearly half ( 48 % ) say everything possible should be done to make it easy to vote , while 51 % say citizens should have to prove they want to vote by registering ahead of time . Only about a third of conservative Republicans ( 36 % ) favor doing everything possible to make it easy to vote , compared with a majority ( 65 % ) of moderate and liberal Republicans . ( A report earlier this year , based on 2017 data , found that conservatives constituted a majority – 68 % – of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters ; moderates and liberals made up about a third of GOP voters , or 31 % . )
Among Americans ages 18 to 29 , about six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say they would feel somewhat or very comfortable using a gender-neutral pronoun to refer to someone if they asked them to do so . By comparison , roughly half of those ages 30 to 49 ( 52 % ) and 50 and older ( 48 % ) express comfort .
News about health care reform ran a close second to news about swine flu in terms of public interest . About a third ( 32 % ) followed health care reform news very closely , while 22 % say this was their top story of the week . According to PEJ , health care reform topped the news media 's agenda , accounting for 16 % of the newshole .
Majorities of U.S. military veterans – as well as the broader U.S. public – say the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were not worth fighting . Among veterans , 64 % say the war in Iraq was not worth fighting , while 58 % say the same about the war in Afghanistan . The American public holds similar views : 62 % and 59 % of U.S. adults , respectively , say the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were not worth it , considering the costs and the benefits . When asked about the U.S. military campaign in Syria , 55 % of veterans and 58 % of the public say the campaign has not been worth it .
Most Biden supporters also express confidence that votes cast by absentee or mail-in ballot will be counted as intended : More than three-quarters ( 77 % ) say they are somewhat ( 47 % ) or very confident ( 30 % ) . By comparison , 36 % of Trump supporters say they are somewhat or very confident these votes will be counted as voters intended . And Trump backers are more than twice as likely to say they are not at all confident of this as they are to say they are very confident .
More than one-in-three American labor force participants ( 35 % ) are Millennials , making them the largest generation in the U.S. labor force , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data .
Large majorities of Americans say the tone and nature of political debate in the United States has become more negative in recent years . More than eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 85 % ) say that political debate in the country has become more negative and less respectful , according to a survey conducted this spring . About three-quarters ( 76 % ) say it has become less fact-based and 60 % say it has become less focused on issues . Donald Trump is a major factor in people 's views about the state of the nation 's political discourse . A majority ( 55 % ) say Trump has changed the tone and nature of political debate for the worse , while fewer than half as many ( 24 % ) say he has changed it for the better . One-in-five Americans say he has had little impact .
By roughly two-to-one , both blacks ( 62 % to 29 % ) and Hispanics ( 63 % to 33 % ) are more likely to say free trade agreements have been good for the country than to say they have been bad for the country . By contrast , whites are divided in their views of the impact of free trade agreements ( 47 % say they have been a good thing , 44 % say they have been a bad thing ) .
The vast majority of people across 15 countries in Western Europe and in the United States say they would be willing to accept Muslims as neighbors . Slightly lower shares on both sides of the Atlantic say they would be willing to accept a Muslim as a family member .
Majorities in most of the Muslim publics surveyed express concerns about Islamic extremism in their country . Senegalese Muslims are the most worried ( 75 % concerned ) , but at least six-in-ten Muslims in Lebanon , Tunisia , Malaysia , Nigeria , Pakistan , Egypt and the Palestinian territories are also concerned . More Jordanian Muslims ( 54 % ) see Islamic extremism as a threat than do not ( 45 % ) .
The audience for terrestrial radio remains steady and high : In 2018 , 89 % of Americans ages 12 or older listened to terrestrial radio in a given week , according to Nielsen Media Research data published by the Radio Advertising Bureau , a figure that has changed little since 2009 .
Americans also continue to closely track the debate in Washington over health care reform . Close to three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say they followed stories about the health care debate very closely , about the same level that followed these stories very closely the previous week ( 29 % ) . This past week , 17 % say these were the stories they followed most closely . Stories about proposed changes to the health care system made up 7 % of the newshole examined by PEJ . A similar share ( 27 % ) say they very closely followed stories about new military threats from North Korea ; 12 % say they followed reports about those threats more closely than any other major stories . Those stories accounted for 4 % of the newshole .
The survey asked Jews in Israel whether they identify with any of these international streams of Judaism , acknowledging that some of them may not be familiar to respondents . In Israel , very few Jews identify with Conservative ( 2 % ) or Reform ( 3 % ) Judaism , while half ( 50 % ) identify with Orthodoxy – including many Jews who are not highly religiously observant but may still be most familiar with Orthodox Judaism . About four-in-ten Israeli Jews ( 41 % ) do not identify with any of these three streams or denominations of Judaism .
Few Americans trust Instagram as a place to get political and election news . Just 6 % of U.S. adults say they trust Instagram as a place to get political and election news , with a much larger share ( 42 % ) saying they distrust it for such information , according to a fall 2019 survey . Some 37 % of U.S. adults say they neither trust nor distrust the site for this type of news . Americans have more distrust than trust in all the social media platforms asked about in the survey . For example , 17 % of Americans say they trust YouTube as a place for political and election news , while 36 % say they distrust the site . And while 15 % of U.S. adults say they trust Facebook for this type of information , a much larger share ( 59 % ) say they distrust this platform as a place to get political and election news .
Concern about the deficit tends to rise with age . Among Americans 65 and older , 58 % said the deficit is a very big problem , compared with 52 % of 50- to 64-year-olds , 43 % of 30- to 49-year-olds and 33 % of 18- to 29-year-olds . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents were somewhat more likely to call the deficit a very big problem : 49 % did so , compared with 45 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners . Viewed through ideology , self-described liberal Democrats were considerably less likely to call the deficit a very big problem ( 38 % ) than conservative Republicans ( 51 % ) , conservative and moderate Democrats ( 50 % ) or moderate and liberal Republicans ( 47 % ) .
China 's reputation among Americans had already fallen to an all-time low in Pew Research Center polling as of March , with roughly two-thirds viewing the country unfavorably . Now , a survey conducted April 29 to May 5 finds that Americans expect China 's international reputation will suffer because of how the country has handled the coronavirus outbreak , which originated within its borders . Americans are also critical of how China has handled the global pandemic and are skeptical of information from the Chinese government . Nearly all Americans are skeptical of information from the Chinese government about the coronavirus outbreak . More than eight-in-ten Americans ( 84 % ) distrust information from the Chinese government about the coronavirus outbreak , including nearly half ( 49 % ) who have no trust in it at all . This is more than twice as many as say they have no trust at all in the information coming from the World Health Organization ( 18 % ) , an organization whose handling of the virus is given mixed – and partisan – evaluations .
Gun owners with children younger than 18 in the household are more likely than those who are n't parents to say they keep all their guns locked and unloaded while they 're at home , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Even so , 44 % of gun-owning parents say there is a gun that is both loaded and easily accessible to them all or most of the time when they 're at home . Among gun-owning parents with children in their household , 54 % say all of the guns in their home are kept in a locked place and 53 % say they are all kept unloaded . By comparison , 30 % of gun owners who are not parents say all their guns are locked and 40 % say they are unloaded , according to the survey conducted in March and April among 3,930 U.S. adults , including 1,269 gun owners .
Germans are more positive about globalization than Americans , but there are divisions within each country . When asked whether globalization in the past few years has been a good thing or bad thing for their country , Americans are about evenly divided ( 47 % vs. 44 % ) . By comparison , nearly six-in-ten Germans ( 59 % ) see globalization as advantageous to their country , while only three-in-ten say it has been a bad thing . ( The surveys did not define globalization . )
Issues related to the ongoing drug war top the Mexican public 's list of concerns . Three-in-four say cartel-related violence is a very big problem for the country , while a roughly equal number say the same about human rights violations by the military and police . And 73 % name crime as a very big problem .
As is the case on many climate-related issues , perceptions of whether and how much climate change is affecting local communities are closely tied with political party affiliation . More than eight-in-ten Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party ( 83 % ) say climate change is affecting their local community at least some , compared with 37 % of Republicans and Republican leaners .
To date , 44 women have served as governors in 30 states . In 2019 , six Democratic and three Republican women are serving as governors . Nellie Tayloe Ross of Wyoming , a Democrat , was the first female governor ; she was elected in a special election in 1924 to succeed her deceased husband . Ella Grasso , a Connecticut Democrat , was the first female governor elected in her own right , in 1975 .
NPR 's digital platforms continue to be an important part of its reach . The NPR One app , which offers a stream of individual shows and podcasts , had a similar or slightly higher average number of total completed sessions in 2018 as in 2017 , depending upon the device . ( A completed session is any instance in which a user starts and stops using the app . ) The NPR News app , which offers livestreams from individual stations and digital content , declined in completed sessions among Android and iPad users . ( Data for the NPR News iPhone app is unavailable for 2018 . )
The most active 10 % of adult Twitter users in the U.S. produce 80 % of all tweets sent by these users . The median adult user of the platform tweets just twice a month , but a small group tweets much more frequently , according to our April study . There was an even starker pattern in a follow-up study that looked specifically at tweets about national politics . In that study , 97 % of tweets that were created by U.S. adults and mentioned national politics came from just 10 % of users .
South Korea has no majority religious group . Its population includes a plurality of people with no religious affiliation ( 46 % ) and significant shares of Christians ( 29 % ) and Buddhists ( 23 % ) . South Korea 's current president , Park Geun-hye , is an atheist with connections to Buddhism and Catholicism , according to the Council on Foreign Relations . In 1900 , only 1 % of the country 's population was Christian , but largely through the efforts of missionaries and churches , Christianity has grown rapidly in South Korea over the past century . In 2010 , roughly three-in-ten South Koreans were Christian , including members of the world 's largest Pentecostal church , Yoido Full Gospel Church , in Seoul .
For their part , most Americans say they are interested in news about other major world powers . Nearly seven-in-ten Americans surveyed in the fall of 2017 say they are interested in what happens in Great Britain ( 69 % ) , China ( 69 % ) and Russia ( 68 % ) . And roughly two-thirds say the same about Germany and Japan ( 66 % each ) . Mutual interest between publics in the U.S. and other major powers diverges in several cases . For example , while 68 % of Americans say they are interested in news about Russia , only 48 % of Russians say they closely follow news about the U.S. And while 61 % of Americans are interested in news about France , just 50 % of French people say they closely follow news about the U.S .
Nearly half of voters say they voted by mail or absentee . Largely because of concerns over the pandemic , mail and absentee voting increased dramatically in 2020 . Nearly half of voters ( 46 % ) say they voted by absentee or mail – including 18 % who report casting ballots by mail for the first time . A 54 % majority say they voted in person , with equal shares voting on Election Day or before the election .
Many Nigerians are skeptical about the country 's political and judicial systems . Almost six-in-ten ( 59 % ) say the statement `` elected officials care what ordinary people think '' does not describe their country well . In addition , a 57 % majority believes that no matter who wins an election , things do not change very much for people in Nigeria .
In addition to these core religious beliefs , 69 % of U.S. Muslims also put a premium on working for justice and equality in society , and 62 % consider it essential to safeguard the environment . The importance of the environment is even more prominent among those who say religion is very important in their lives ; 68 % of this group say protecting the environment is essential to their Muslim identity , compared with only half ( 51 % ) of those who say religion is less important to them . About half ( 48 % ) of U.S. Muslims say eating halal ( religiously sanctioned ) food is essential to their religious identity , and 44 % say the same about dressing modestly . Modest dress is more important to women ( 52 % ) than men ( 36 % ) .
Overall , Americans largely say the public should not be expected to know when a video or image has been altered or made up entirely . About six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 61 % ) say it is too much to ask of the average American to be able to recognize altered videos and images , while fewer than half ( 38 % ) say the public should be able to recognize them . Overall , Americans place less responsibility on the public – and less faith in their own abilities – to recognize altered videos than they do with other forms of potentially inaccurate or misleading forms of information . The public is less likely to say the average American should be able to recognize altered videos than they are to say the same about made-up news and information , unverified breaking information , one-sided factual information , or satire about an issue or event . Americans are also less likely to say they can easily recognize altered videos themselves than say this about the other four types of misinformation the survey asked about .
Protestants made up a majority of those voting Republican in 2018 , just as they did in 2016 . Overall , 57 % of GOP House voters were Protestant , compared with just a third ( 32 % ) of Democratic voters . Catholics made up a slightly higher share of Republican voters as well ( 22 % vs. 16 % of Democratic voters ) . Voters who were unaffiliated with any religious tradition ( atheists , agnostics and those who describe themselves as `` nothing in particular '' ) make up 42 % of Democratic voters but just 15 % of Republican voters .
There was also a substantial age gap in these views : Just 45 % of adults younger than 30 said the quality of congressional candidates in their district 's last several elections was good . By contrast , more than six-in-ten of those in older age groups said this , including about three-quarters of those 65 and older ( 77 % ) . Younger people also tended to offer more negative evaluations of past candidate pools for other levels of office . ( The age gap is partly the result of younger people being less likely to identify as partisans , but a gap remains even when that is taken into account . )
Overall , in 2019 , more than four-in-ten Americans pointed to wages and incomes ( 48 % ) , the availability of jobs ( 45 % ) and health care costs ( 43 % ) as contributing a great deal to their overall opinion about how the economy is doing . Roughly one-quarter or fewer said real estate values ( 27 % ) , how the stock market is doing ( 25 % ) and gas prices ( 23 % ) contributed a great deal to shaping their views of the economy .
The most frequently mentioned reason why people oppose legalization is that marijuana generally hurts society and is bad for individuals ( 43 % say this ) . And while many supporters of legalization say that marijuana is less dangerous than other drugs , 30 % of opponents have the opposite view : They point to the dangers of marijuana , including the possibility of abuse and addiction . About one-in-five opponents of legalization ( 19 % ) say marijuana is illegal and needs to be policed , 11 % say it is a gateway to harder drugs and 8 % say it is especially harmful to young people . A small share of opponents ( 7 % ) say that while the recreational use of marijuana should be illegal , they do not object to legalizing medical marijuana .1
The U.S. Department of Homeland Security data analysis shows the number of unaccompanied minors apprehended at the border who originated from Mexico , Honduras , El Salvador , Guatemala and other countries from Oct. 1 , 2012 through May 31 , 2014 . Although the specific reasons for migration to the U.S. may vary , Central Americans of all ages are fleeing some of the highest murder rates in the world , but females face additional danger .
The vast majority of these PPP loans were relatively small in size . About eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) were for less than $ 150,000 , 9 % ranged from $ 150,000 to $ 350,000 , 4 % were between $ 350,000 and $ 1 million , and about 3 % were $ 1 million or more . This was about on par with PPP loans across all industries , of which 87 % were less than $ 150,000 , according to the SBA . In the data released by the SBA , loans were broken out into six different ranges and these ranges are used throughout this report .
Most Americans say a college education is not worth the cost . In fact , 57 % say that college students receive only a fair ( 42 % ) or poor ( 15 % ) return for the money they and their families spend on their education . Just 5 % of the public says college students receive excellent value for their money , and 35 % say colleges provide good value . There is little difference in the evaluation of a college education between adults who did and did not attend college . College presidents , however , are far more generous in their evaluation of higher education . Fully three-fourths of college presidents say students receive an excellent ( 17 % ) or good ( 59 % ) value for the money they spend on an education . Still , despite the lack of enthusiasm for higher education among the public , most adults who graduated from college value their degree to some extent . Among college graduates , fully 86 % say that college has been a good investment for them personally ; just 6 % say it has not . Read more
According to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in mid-June – in advance of the court 's ruling – 48 % of the public disapprove of the 2010 Affordable Care Act , while 43 % approve . That 's little different from April 2010 – shortly after the law was enacted – when 44 % said they disapproved and 40 % said they approved .
Majorities in Germany ( 71 % ) , Britain ( 62 % ) and Spain ( 59 % ) would also support a similar ban in their own countries . In contrast , most Americans would oppose such a measure ; 65 % say they would disapprove of a ban on Muslim women wearing full veils in public places compared with 28 % who say they would approve .
About three-in-ten Americans ( 29 % ) say they are very confident in their own abilities to check the accuracy of a news story , while about a quarter ( 24 % ) express little to no confidence in their ability . The greatest portion ( 46 % ) are somewhat confident in their own ability .
As in the past , substantial majorities across the political spectrum are either angry or frustrated with the federal government . But anger at the government is far more widespread among conservative Republicans than other partisan groups . This marks a change from 2011 , when political independents ( 30 % angry ) were about as likely as conservative Republicans ( 32 % ) to express anger at the federal government . In the new survey , 41 % of conservative Republicans say they feel angry at the government , compared with 27 % of independents . Conservative Republicans are roughly twice as likely as liberal Democrats to say they are angry with government ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) . But in October 2006 , during the Bush administration , liberal Democrats expressed more anger at the government than any other group . At that time , just prior to the 2006 midterm , the percentage of liberal Democrats who said they felt angry at the federal government ( 44 % ) mirrors the share of conservative Republicans who say that today ( 41 % ) .
Voters in 2018 who did not vote in 2016 were a small group ( about 11 % of all 2018 voters ) but an important part of why the Democratic Party made gains . Among the 2016 nonvoters who voted in 2018 , Democratic House candidates led Republican House candidates by a more than a two-to-one ( 68 % to 29 % ) margin .
About half ( 47 % ) of Republican voters also rate Chris Christie positively , yet unfavorable opinions of the New Jersey governor ( at 30 % ) are higher than for Ryan , Paul or Rubio . Texas Sen. Ted Cruz , while not very well known among GOP voters , is rated positively ( 33 % favorable , 13 % unfavorable ) .
There are big gaps as well in perceptions about how women are treated in the workplace and how much attention is paid to increasing gender diversity . Most women who work in majority-female workplaces say women are usually treated fairly where they work when it comes to recruitment and hiring ( 79 % ) and in opportunities for promotion and advancement ( 70 % ) . Smaller shares , but still majorities , of women who say their workplace is balanced in terms of gender say women are treated fairly in these areas . Women who work in majority-male workplaces feel much differently : 48 % say women are treated fairly where they work when it comes to recruitment and hiring , and even fewer ( 38 % ) say women are treated fairly in promotions and advancement . Women who work mainly with men are also less likely than other female workers to say their workplace pays the right amount of attention to increasing gender diversity . Only 49 % say this , compared with 78 % of women who say there is an even gender mix where they work and 71 % who work in female-dominated workplaces .
Texas , Washington , New York and California resettled roughly a quarter of all refugees in fiscal 2019 . Together , these states took in nearly 8,100 refugees . Other states that received at least 1,000 refugees include Kentucky , Ohio , North Carolina , Arizona , Georgia and Michigan . By contrast , the District of Columbia , Delaware and West Virginia each resettled fewer than 10 refugees . Hawaii and Wyoming took in no refugees in fiscal 2019 .
The Bush administration 's strategies for repairing the tattered U.S. image in the Middle East — through the promotion of democracy and by increasing public diplomacy in the region — are viewed skeptically by opinion leaders . No more than a third in any group believe that Bush 's push for democracy in the region will succeed ; most believe it is a good idea , but one that will fail . Security specialists and foreign affairs experts , in particular , express little confidence that public diplomacy can do much to help America 's image in the region , though that effort is more highly regarded by religious leaders , state and local government officials and military leaders .
A number of personal characteristics play a role in people 's levels of social trust . Older people , whites and those with higher household incomes or higher levels of education are more likely than others to give trusting answers . These patterns mirror those found in 2018 . Statistical modeling shows that people 's overall level of social trust is an independent predictor , above and beyond preexisting demographic differences , of how they are reacting to the pandemic .
Ukraine 's new governing coalition recently announced its intention to pass a law against joining military alliances , which will fulfill Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych 's campaign promise to prevent Ukraine from becoming a member in NATO . The new president 's opponents in parliament argue that this new strategy may result in pushing Ukraine back into the Russian `` sphere of influence '' and out of the European fold . However , Yanukovych 's move to ban Ukraine from joining NATO is not without a base of public support . A September 2009 survey by the Pew Research Center 's Global Attitudes Project , found that half of Ukrainians ( 51 % ) opposed their country 's admission to NATO , while only 28 % favored such a step . Moreover , given the opposition to membership , it is not surprising that about half of Ukrainians ( 51 % ) gave NATO an unfavorable rating .
In the four predominantly Muslim countries surveyed , opposition to the war remains nearly universal . Moreover , while large majorities in Western European countries opposed to the war say Saddam Hussein 's ouster will improve the lot of the Iraqi people , those in Muslim countries are less confident . In Jordan , no less than 70 % of survey respondents think the Iraqis will be worse off with Hussein gone .
Within these countries , those who hold favorable views of right-wing populist parties – like the Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) or Italy 's Northern League – are more likely to express confidence in Putin than those who hold unfavorable views of those parties . Just about half of those who give positive ratings to the AfD and 46 % who favor the Northern League say they are confident Putin will do the right thing regarding world affairs . In France , those partial to the right-wing National Front ( FN ) are about twice as likely as those with negative views of the FN to say they are confident in Putin 's leadership ( 31 % vs. 16 % ) . And those who view Geert Wilders ' Dutch Party for Freedom favorably are nearly three times as likely as the party 's detractors to express confidence in Putin ( 26 % vs. 10 % ) .
Here are five facts about how labor market activity among women and men with children at home has been affected in the first six months of the COVID-19 outbreak . The focus is on the shares of mothers and fathers who are working – employed and at work – in September 2020 and how that compares with where things stood in September 2019 . The shares of mothers and fathers who were employed and at work in September 2020 were smaller than in September 2019 . Among mothers , this share decreased from 69.0 % to 63.4 % and , among fathers , it decreased from 90.5 % to 85.6 % over this period . The drop in the share of mothers working was about the same as the drop among fathers , 5.6 vs. 4.9 percentage points .
The global middle class is also less likely to believe faith is essential for morality . This pattern is especially strong in several of the predominantly Catholic nations in the analysis . Roughly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) middle-class Argentines , for example , said it is not necessary to believe in God to be moral and have good values , while just four-in-ten lower-income Argentines held this view . There are also double-digit gaps between the middle class and poorer respondents in the Latin American nations of Mexico and Venezuela , as well as in another largely Catholic nation , Poland .
At the same time , the new findings show that mobile divides even exist for phone owners . Significant numbers of owners struggle to use their phones to full advantage . A median of 46 % in these countries say they frequently or occasionally have difficulties getting reliable phone connections , 37 % say it can be a challenge to pay for their phones and 33 % report finding places to charge their phones is a problem at least occasionally . In addition , a median of 42 % report frequently or occasionally avoiding some activities on their phones because they use too much data . In some countries , mobile owners ' problems are particularly striking . In Lebanon , for example , 77 % of phone owners report having problems getting reliable mobile connections , and about two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they avoid doing things with their phones because those activities use too much data . In Jordan , nearly half ( 48 % ) report having trouble paying for their phone , while in Tunisia four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say it can be a challenge to find places to recharge their phones .
Like Muslims elsewhere in Europe , the French also worry more generally about the future of Muslims in their country — though , in this case , Muslims in France are significantly less worried than those in Great Britain . A majority ( 57 % ) is also at least somewhat concerned about the declining importance of religion among their co-religionists in France , though again , British Muslims are more troubled on this score with 73 % sharing the worry . ( In this , as in other questions in the survey , no significant difference is seen among the responses of French Muslims of Algerian , Moroccan or other ethnicity . )
Most voters who cast ballots in person say that their polling place was not too ( 28 % ) or not at all ( 41 % ) crowded . About three-in-ten say it was somewhat ( 24 % ) or very ( 6 % ) crowded .
Many Germans see the U.S. as a top foreign policy partner ; fewer Americans feel the same way about Germany . When asked which countries are their most important partners in global affairs , Germans name France more than any other country , but the U.S. is in the second spot . More than four-in-ten Germans say the U.S. is either their country 's first or second most important partner . Americans are much less likely to see Germany this way : Only 12 % name Germany as one of America 's top two partners . Still , Germany does make the top four , trailing Great Britain and China and tying with Israel .
An estimated 1.4 million Hispanics of Guatemalan origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Guatemalans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Guatemalan origin ; this includes immigrants from Guatemala and those who trace their family ancestry to Guatemala . Guatemalans are the sixth-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Guatemalan-origin population has increased 255 % , growing from 406,000 to 1.4 million over the period . At the same time , the Guatemalan foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 171 % , from 319,000 in 2000 to 864,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
YouTube tends to recommend progressively longer and more popular content to users . This analysis illustrates how YouTube 's recommendation engine encourages users to engage with progressively longer content . The videos encountered in the first step of these random walks ( that is , the initial starting videos chosen at random ) collectively averaged 9 minutes and 31 seconds in length . But the first videos selected by the recommendation engine were nearly three minutes longer on average . Average video length then progressively increased for each subsequent recommendation . By the fifth and final step in these walks , these videos were on average nearly 15 minutes long .
The nation 's voting population in 2018 was the most racially and ethnically diverse ever for a midterm election . Blacks , Hispanics and Asians accounted for a record 25.0 % of voters , up from 21.7 % in 2014 . Whites continue to make up the vast majority of voters ( 72.8 % ) and their overall numbers continue to grow . However , as a share of U.S. voters , the 3.5 percentage point drop among white voters since 2014 is one of the largest declines between midterms in decades .
Many Americans anticipate that various automation technologies will make significant inroads in terms of their development and adoption in the coming decades . Driverless vehicles are perhaps the most prominent example of this trend . Fully 94 % of Americans have some awareness of the effort to develop driverless vehicles , and roughly two-thirds of the public anticipates that most vehicles on the road will be driverless within the next half-century – with 9 % predicting that this will occur in the next 10 years .
Hawaii 's abundance of multiracial people with Asian and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander heritage differs from the makeup of the nation 's overall multiracial population ( including adults and children ) . In the U.S. , the multiracial population is more evenly spread among biracial white and black ( 22 % ) , white and Asian ( 18 % ) and white and American Indian ( 16 % ) .
The differences in projected growth were even more pronounced when looking at social skills , which Pew Research Center defines as encompassing interpersonal skills , written and spoken communication skills , and management or leadership skills . Employment in occupations that require average to above-average levels of such social skills is projected to grow by 8.1 % , versus just 4.4 % growth for occupations requiring below-average levels of those skills .
There is strong resistance to any cuts in entitlement programs in order to reduce the deficit , with 58 % of Americans saying that to maintaining benefits as they are trumps deficit reduction , ( 35 % favor taking steps to reduce the deficit ) . Nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) put a higher priority on avoiding any future cuts in benefit amounts than on avoiding Social Security tax increases for workers and employers , with 32 % believing that avoiding tax increases is more important .
While the Supreme Court has ruled that the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits school-sponsored prayer in public schools , the court also has made clear that individual students have a right to pray in public settings . And , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of teens ages 13 to 17 , a sizable share of students in public school are availing themselves of this right . About a quarter of teens who identify with a religion and attend public school ( 26 % ) say they regularly pray before eating lunch at school . There are differences across religious groups , with 39 % of evangelical Protestant teens , 18 % of Catholic teens and 11 % of mainline Protestant teens saying they often or sometimes pray before eating lunch . ( The survey 's sample size was not large enough to report on the practices of teens who belong to most other religious groups . )
But among Democrats and Democratic leaners , 53 % say they worry Kavanaugh would make the Supreme Court too conservative , while far fewer say they do n't worry about this ( 28 % ) . Among Republicans , a 63 % majority say they do n't worry about Kavanaugh shifting the court 's ideology ; small shares worry that he would make the court too conservative ( 12 % ) or not conservative enough ( 17 % ) .
The public sees threats to workers from multiple fronts . For example , most Americans say that increased outsourcing of jobs to other countries ( 80 % ) and more foreign-made products being sold in the U.S. ( 77 % ) hurt American workers . Workers see automation as less of a threat . Large majorities see increased use of the internet and other technology in the workplace ( 70 % ) and more U.S.-made products being sold abroad ( 68 % ) as helping American workers .
Those who identify themselves as `` born-again or evangelical '' Christians constitute a sizable share of the electorate – 36 % of registered voters , compared with 37 % who are non-evangelical Christians and 27 % who identify with non-Christian faiths or with no religion at all . In addition , evangelicals are much more numerous within the Republican Party than among Democrats . Still , nearly three-in-ten Democrats consider themselves born-again or evangelical Christians .
Employment for foreign-born Hispanics increased at annual rate of 3.3 % in the first quarter of 2007 ( Figure 6 ) . By this measure as well the employment growth was slower than for any other first quarter , indeed for any quarter , in the preceding three years . On average from the beginning of 2004 to the end of 2006 employment increased by an annual rate 6.6 % .
Republican men ( 40 % ) are more likely to oppose granting legal status than are Republican women ( 32 % ) . And while younger Republicans ( those ages 18 to 49 ) broadly support granting legal status to those brought to the U.S. illegally as children ( 59 % favor , 34 % oppose ) , older Republicans are more divided ( 49 % favor , 38 % oppose ) .
In a separate Pew Research Center survey conducted in January , 94 % of Democrats say they trust what Trump says less than what prior presidents said , while 58 % of Republicans say they trust what Trump says more than what prior presidents said . Similarly , nine-in-ten Democrats say the ethical standards of top Trump administration officials are poor or not good , while around three-quarters of Republicans ( 76 % ) say the administration 's ethical standards are excellent or good .
Most Mexicans say the military and the media are having a very or somewhat good influence on the way things are going in Mexico ( 62 % and 60 % , respectively ) In contrast , only about three-in-ten say the court system ( 32 % ) and the police ( 30 % ) are having a positive influence .
Majority has less trust in what Trump says compared with previous presidents . Overall , 54 % say they trust what Trump says less than they trusted what previous presidents said when they were in office ; just 25 % say they trust Trump more than his predecessors , while 19 % say they trust him about the same amount . About half of Republicans ( 52 % ) say they trust what Trump says more than previous presidents , compared with 5 % of Democrats . Fewer Republicans express more trust in what Trump says than did so in April 2017 ( 66 % ) ; there has been little in change in Democrats ' views .
Three of Mexico 's major political parties tested on the survey receive majority-negative ratings from the public . Peña Nieto 's PRI gets the highest marks , with a favorability rating of 38 % . Still , a 56 % majority expresses a negative view of the party , up from 47 % last year . Meanwhile , the right-of-center PAN ( 63 % unfavorable ) and social-democratic PRD ( 68 % ) are even more unpopular .
Fewer ( a median of 22 % ) think India 's global role has diminished in the past decade . In particular , South Africans ( 37 % ) and Brazilians ( 32 % ) see India as a less important global power . The most common view across the nations surveyed ( a median of 34 % ) is that India 's role is about the same as it was 10 years ago .
Uncertainty about what constitutes `` offensive '' speech . As in the past , a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say `` too many people are easily offended over the language that others use . '' Yet there is uncertainty about what constitutes offensive speech : About half ( 51 % ) say it is easy to know what others might find offensive , while nearly as many ( 48 % ) say it is hard to know . In addition , majorities say that people in this country do not generally agree about the types of language considered to be sexist ( 65 % ) and racist ( 61 % ) .
Most Catholics in the U.S. say the sex abuse scandal is one priority they want Francis to address . After the new pope was elected in March , 70 % of U.S. Catholics said that addressing the abuse scandal should be `` a top priority '' for him – more than any other potential priority listed in a Pew Research survey .
In U.S. congressional races nationwide , an estimated 69 % of Latinos voted for the Democratic candidate and 29 % backed the Republican candidate , a more than two-to-one advantage for Democrats , according to National Election Pool exit poll data . These results largely reflect the party affiliation of Latinos . In a Pew Research Center pre-election survey , 62 % of Latinos said they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party compared with 27 % who affiliated with the Republican Party . Among other racial and ethnic groups , a lower share of whites ( 44 % ) voted for Democrats in congressional races compared with blacks ( 90 % ) and Asians ( 77 % ) . ( Exit polls offer the first look at who voted in an election , a portrait that will be refined over time as more data , such as state voter files , become available . ) Latinos made up a notable share of eligible voters in several states with competitive races for U.S. Senate and governor , including Texas ( 30 % ) , Arizona ( 23 % ) , Florida ( 20 % ) and Nevada ( 19 % ) . In these states , Democrats won the Latino vote , sometimes by a wide margin . In the Texas Senate race , 64 % of Latinos voted for Democrat Beto O'Rourke while 35 % voted for Republican incumbent Ted Cruz . In the state 's race for governor , about half of Hispanics ( 53 % ) voted for Democrat Lupe Valdez and 42 % backed the Republican , Greg Abbott . In Florida , Republican candidates often win a larger share of the Hispanic vote than elsewhere , in part due to a large population of Cubans that has tended to vote more Republican than other Hispanic groups . In the Senate race , 54 % of Hispanics voted for Democrat Bill Nelson and 45 % backed Republican Rick Scott . Latinos voted similarly in the race for governor , with 54 % of Hispanics voting for Democrat Andrew Gillum and 44 % voting for Republican Ron DeSantis . Meanwhile , Latinos voted for Democratic candidates by wide margins in Nevada . About 67 % of Latinos voted for Democrat Jacky Rosen in the Senate race , compared with 30 % who voted for Republican Dean Heller . In the race for governor , Latinos voted in a similar manner .
When it comes to getting a good education , majorities in all but one country surveyed – ranging from 64 % in Brazil to 91 % in Greece – say men and women in their country have about the same opportunities . About half say the same in Turkey . Tunisia is the only country surveyed where a significantly larger share says women have more opportunities than men to get a good education than say men have more opportunities than women . About a quarter of Tunisians ( 24 % ) see women as having more opportunities in this area , compared with 6 % who say men do ; 70 % believe men and women have about the same opportunities to get a good education .
The National Day of Prayer , established by Congress in 1952 , occurs on May 7 this year . The U.S . Religious Landscape Survey , conducted by the Pew Research Center 's Forum on Religion & Public Life , shows that prayer is a common religious practice in America , with nearly six-in-ten adults in the U.S. saying they pray at least once a day . However , frequency of prayer differs significantly by religious tradition , age , gender and income .
In other EU countries , the share of adults who speak the national language at home is smaller , including 90 % in Germany , 89 % in Slovakia , 81 % in Spain and 80 % in Bulgaria . These more diverse linguistic environments sometimes reflect immigration patterns or unique local conditions .
Americans , however , split about evenly on this question : 42 % say they first think of themselves as Christians versus 48 % who think of themselves primarily as Americans – a divide close to that found among French Muslims . Muslims in Europe are most sharply distinguished from the majority populations on opinions about external issues – America , the war on terrorism , Iran , the Middle East .2 European Muslims give the United States lower favorability ratings than do general publics in Europe , and in particular , they give the American people lower ratings . The war on terror is extremely unpopular among minority Muslim populations – German Muslims register the highest level of support , at 31 % .
In 2011 , nearly two-thirds ( 64.6 % ) of U.S. Hispanics , or 33.5 million , traced their family origins to Mexico , according to Pew Research Center tabulations of the 2011 American Community Survey ( ACS ) . By comparison , Puerto Ricans , the nation 's second largest Hispanic-origin group , number about 5 million and make up 9.5 % of the total Hispanic population in the 50 states and the District of Columbia .1
The threat of cyberattacks from other countries has been among the public 's top threats for several years . In the current survey , 74 % say cyberattacks are a major threat to the well-being of the U.S. , which is greater than the shares saying that about Iran 's nuclear program ( 57 % ) , global climate change ( also 57 % ) or other issues .
Still , Democrats in particular are somewhat more likely today than they were last year to say the term `` Democrat '' describes them very well : 39 % say this today , compared with 33 % in March 2016 . Another 51 % of Democrats say the term describes them fairly well . Even fewer Republicans ( 31 % ) say the term `` Republican '' applies very well to them ; most Republicans ( 58 % ) say it describes them fairly well . The share of Republicans who say they are described well by the term is largely unchanged from last year .
When it came to specifics , the public was far less interested in their side compromising . For example , when people were asked if they wanted their preferred party to compromise on abortion policy or stick to its position , just one-quarter ( 25 % ) chose compromise and 72 % preferred not compromising , even at the risk of getting nothing done . And on other political issues , where specific choices were mentioned , only about half said that their side should compromise to reach an agreement . Among those who said that a certain issue was their top priority , even fewer said their side should compromise on it .
Asked about the impact of these learning activities , many personal and professional learners cite a variety of benefits . For the 74 % of the population who pursued personal learning in the past 12 months , the rewards often tie to psychological and social benefits :
Compared with older adults , social media users under the age of 50 are especially likely to say that these tools help them keep up with existing friends and reconnect with old ones—roughly seven in ten users under the age of fifty say that staying in touch with current friends is a major reason they use online social platforms , and just over half say that connecting with old friends they 've lost touch with is equally important . Each of these is significantly higher than comparable figures for users ages 50 and older , although a relatively large number of older adults point to connections with friends as a major reason for their social networking site usage as well .
Many of the responses we received in this survey , conducted this summer , mentioned one of the major presidential candidates as the `` political or social issue '' they changed their minds on . Around one-in-five users mentioned either Hillary Clinton ( 21 % ) or Donald Trump ( 18 % ) , and around one-in-ten referenced Bernie Sanders :
This message is likely to resonate with many Americans . Seven-in-ten U.S. adults say the economic system in their country unfairly favors powerful interests , compared with less than a third who say the system is generally fair to most Americans . Wide majorities of Americans also say politicians , large corporations and people who are wealthy have too much power and influence in today 's economy . Across income groups , Americans tend to agree that the economic system unfairly favors powerful interests . Two-thirds of upper-income adults ( 66 % ) say this , as do 69 % of middle- and 73 % of lower-income adults . No more than about a third in each income group say the economic system is generally fair to most Americans . There is a partisan gap on this question , however . Republicans and independents who lean to the Republican Party are evenly divided , with half saying the economic system is generally fair and half saying it favors powerful interests . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , the vast majority ( 86 % ) say the system unfairly favors powerful interests , while only 12 % say the system is fair .
The public 's news interests are largely unchanged from a week earlier . But news organizations suddenly shifted their focus from Japan to the ongoing military action in Libya . News about Libya accounted for 41 % of news coverage this week , compared with just 15 % devoted to the Japan crisis , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Just a week earlier , news from Japan accounted for more than half ( 57 % ) of all news coverage .
Among those expressing optimism , a 55 % majority in Pakistan gives at least partial credit to U.S. policies for its more hopeful view , as do nearly half of Jordanian and Lebanese optimists . But in both Morocco and Turkey , 51 % of optimists give no credit to the U.S . Among pessimists , large majorities ( ranging as high as 75 % in Lebanon , 83 % in Turkey to an astounding 98 % in Jordan ) lay the blame for their lack of optimism at least partly on U.S. policies . Despite widespread distrust of America among Arabs and Muslims , many do believe the U.S. wants to see countries in the region move toward democracy . Clear majorities in Morocco and Lebanon believe the U.S. is backing democracy in their countries . But Jordanians and Pakistanis are nearly evenly split over whether America favors democracy in their nations ( the question was not asked in Turkey ) . Across all four countries , those who believe the U.S. backs democracy are considerably more likely to have a favorable view of America .
While Trump has yet to release his personal tax returns , the public thinks that he has a responsibility to do so : 60 % say this , compared with 33 % who say he does not have a responsibility to release his tax returns . By 79 % to 17 % , more Democrats and Democratic leaners say Trump has a responsibility to release his tax returns than say he does not . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , 38 % say he has a responsibility to do this , compared with 53 % who say he does not have this responsibility .
Despite some growth in certain digital formats , it remains the case that relatively few Americans only consume digital books ( which include audiobooks and e-books ) to the exclusion of print . Some 37 % of Americans say they read only print books , while 28 % read in these digital formats and also read print books . Just 7 % of Americans say they only read books in digital formats and have not read any print books in the past 12 months . ( About a quarter of Americans have n't read a book in any format in the past year . )
About half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 52 % ) said they lived in areas where most of their neighbors supported Trump , while 42 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners said they lived in areas that mostly supported Clinton . Republicans who live in counties that voted overwhelmingly for Trump were much more likely than those who lived in areas that mostly supported Clinton to say that most of their neighbors supported Trump ( 73 % in counties that voted strongly for Trump versus 17 % in counties that voted strongly for Clinton ) .
Puerto Rico 's population stabilized in 2019 after several years of decline . The island 's population stood at 3.2 million in 2019 , the same as in 2018 . Puerto Rico 's population had steadily declined for about a decade , with its sharpest drops occurring in 2017 and 2018 .
With the jobless rate climbing , seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news about the employment picture . About a quarter ( 27 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news , while just 1 percent say they are hearing mostly good news . Perceptions of news about prices , financial markets and real estate values are more mixed .
The economic crisis in Europe garnered only modest attention ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely , while 15 % say they followed this news very closely . The debt crisis accounted for 4 % of coverage .
The Turkish public is more divided on Erdogan 's handling of the economy , with 49 % saying they disapprove of the prime minister 's economic stewardship and 46 % approving . As with other judgments on Erdogan and government influence , Turkish Muslims who are more devout show greater approval of Erdogan 's job performance compared with those who are less religious .
Facebook remains a dominant force in teens ' social media ecosystems , even as Instagram and Snapchat have risen into a prominent role in teens ' online lives . Asked which platforms they used most often , the overall population of teens in this sample ( ages 13 to 17 ) reported that Facebook was the site they used most frequently ( 41 % said that ) , followed by Instagram ( 20 % ) and Snapchat ( 11 % ) .
Recent attacks in Paris , Beirut and Baghdad linked to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) have once again brought terrorism and Islamic extremism to the forefront of international relations . According to newly released data that the Pew Research Center collected in 11 countries with significant Muslim populations , people from Nigeria to Jordan to Indonesia overwhelmingly expressed negative views of ISIS .
Most American adults ( 82 % ) say Muslims are subject to at least some discrimination in the U.S. today , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March – including a majority ( 56 % ) who say Muslims are discriminated against a lot . In this year 's survey , roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) also say Jews face at least some discrimination in the U.S. , up 20 percentage points from the last time this question was asked in 2016 . More say Jews face some discrimination than a lot ( 39 % vs. 24 % ) .
Climate change is a leading global concern among the public , too , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of people in 39 countries earlier this year . A median of 54 % identify it as a major threat , the highest among eight threats tested this spring . Only financial instability conjures a similar level of concern .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted August 20 - 24 among 1,501 adults finds that 33 % say there are plenty of jobs available where they live , while 58 % say that jobs are difficult to find . The share saying jobs are available has ticked up from 29 % in July and 27 % in April . Nearly two years ago , in December 2012 , just 22 % said there were plenty of jobs locally . Moreover , there is broad agreement among the public that the economic recovery remains weak . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say `` the economy is recovering , but not so strongly . '' Just 8 % say the economy is recovering strongly , while three times as many ( 24 % ) say it is not recovering at all . These opinions are virtually unchanged from April .
On the other hand , more find it unacceptable than acceptable for social media companies to monitor users ' posts for signs of depression so they can identify people who are at risk of self-harm and connect them to counseling services ( 45 % vs. 27 % ) . The same pattern arises when it comes to companies that make smart speakers sharing audio recordings of customers with law enforcement to help with criminal investigations : 49 % say this it is unacceptable , while 25 % find it acceptable .
A week after Donald Trump nominated Brett Kavanaugh to fill Justice Anthony Kennedy 's seat on the U.S. Supreme Court , the public is split in its early views of the nomination . Overall , 41 % think the Senate should confirm Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court , while about as many ( 36 % ) say they should not ; 23 % do not offer a view on the question .
Whites and blacks have distinctly different views . An overwhelming majority of blacks ( 92 % ) say whites benefit a great deal or a fair amount from advantages that blacks do not have , including 68 % who say they benefit a great deal . By comparison , 46 % of whites say whites benefit at least a fair amount from advantages in society that blacks do n't have , and just 16 % of whites say whites benefit a great deal . Attitudes among Hispanics fall between those of whites and blacks , with about two-thirds of Hispanics ( 65 % ) saying white people benefit a great deal or a fair amount from societal privileges that black people do not have . The gap between Republicans and Democrats also is stark . Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 78 % ) say white people benefit a great deal or a fair amount from advantages unavailable to black people ; just 21 % say they do not benefit at all or do not benefit too much . The views of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are nearly the opposite : 27 % say whites benefit a great deal or a fair amount from societal advantages , compared with 72 % who say they do not benefit at all or do not benefit too much .
Older Americans are also more likely to have had personal contact with a local journalist : A quarter of U.S. adults ages 65 and over have done so , compared with 17 % of those ages 18 to 29 . ( This may not come as a surprise : Since the question asked whether Americans have `` ever '' spoken to a local journalist , older adults have had more time – and a greater chance – to interact with a local reporter . )
Disagreement between experts and the public arises when it comes to direct democracy . Only a minority of foreign policy experts ( 37 % ) think a democratic system where citizens vote directly on major national issues to decide what becomes law would be a good way to govern their country .
This held true for two Senate races . In Georgia , Democrat Michelle Nunn won 57 % of the Latino vote to Republican David Perdue 's 42 % . But Perdue won the election . In Texas , the Latino vote was split between incumbent Republican John Cornyn ( 48 % ) and Democrat David Alameel ( 47 % ) , as Cornyn won support from nearly half of Latinos . Exit poll data is not available for the Latino vote in Colorado or North Carolina , two key states in this year 's election .
Overall , 45 % say that Muslim Americans face a lot of discrimination , and 28 % say they are subject to some discrimination . Only about one-in-five say that Muslim Americans face only a little ( 13 % ) or no discrimination ( 6 % ) . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say that gays and lesbians face a lot of discrimination . Smaller percentages say that Hispanic Americans ( 25 % ) , African Americans ( 22 % ) and women ( 15 % ) face a lot of discrimination .
At its most extreme , the homework gap can mean that teens have trouble even finishing their homework . Overall , 17 % of teens say they are often or sometimes unable to complete homework assignments because they do not have reliable access to a computer or internet connection . Other times , teens who lack reliable internet service at home say they seek out other locations to complete their schoolwork : 12 % of teens say they at least sometimes use public Wi-Fi to complete assignments because they do not have an internet connection at home . Again , this problem is more prevalent for black or less affluent teens . Roughly one-in-five black teens ( 21 % ) report having to at least sometimes use public Wi-Fi for this reason , including 10 % who say they often do so . And teens whose family income is below $ 30,000 a year are far more likely than those whose annual household income is $ 30,000 or higher to say that they do this ( 21 % vs. 9 % ) .
Independents – particularly the 7 % of Americans who do n't lean toward a party – are less politically engaged than partisans . In a survey conducted shortly after the November 2018 midterm election , just a third of those who do n't lean toward either party ( 33 % ) reported voting . Democratic leaners ( 48 % ) and Republican leaners ( 54 % ) were considerably more likely to say they voted , though both groups reported lower rates of voting than partisans .
The growth in suburban areas since 2000 is driven by several factors . More than 6 million Americans who used to live in urban and rural counties have migrated to the suburbs , and more than 5 million international immigrants have settled there as well . While urban counties have also had an influx of international immigrants since 2000 ( 7 million ) , they have lost 5 million residents to suburban and rural areas . In contrast , in rural counties , the number that moved out to other types of communities since 2000 modestly exceeded the number that moved in . All county types saw more births than deaths during this time period .
One-in-seven U.S. infants ( 14 % ) were multiracial or multiethnic in 2015 , nearly triple the share in 1980 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . This increase comes nearly a half century after the landmark Supreme Court case Loving v. Virginia legalized interracial marriage .
Many Republicans , by contrast , think Democrats fall short on several traits . While more than half of Republicans ( 52 % ) view Democrats as more closed-minded than other Americans , nearly as many say Democrats are more immoral ( 47 % ) , lazier ( 46 % ) and more dishonest ( 45 % ) .
A third of the public ( 33 % ) is very closely following the investigation into the downing of the airplane in Ukraine . Just as many ( 33 % ) are paying close attention to news about children from Central America crossing the U.S.-Mexico border , and 32 % are following the fighting between Israel and Hamas very closely . Fewer Americans tracked news about the recent court rulings on the Affordable Care Act ( 25 % ) and the 2014 congressional midterms ( 14 % ) .
Fewer than half of Democrats ( 46 % ) were even somewhat confident in an accurate and fair election , compared with 75 % of Republicans . And Democrats were deeply concerned over whether all citizens would be able to vote : Just 43 % of Democrats said they were very or somewhat confident all citizens who want to vote would be able to do so , while about twice as many Republicans ( 87 % ) were confident all citizens would be able to vote if they wanted to .
Journalists and print loyalists who are dejected about the state of the U.S. newspaper business may be comforted — or perhaps made a bit envious — by the knowledge that in at least some other countries , newspaper circulation continues to rise smartly . The chart below , from The Economist 's Graphic Detail blog , uses data from the World Press Trends database to show where circulation per 1,000 people has risen and fallen the most over the past four years .
Far fewer are familiar with the specifics relating to the GOP 's victories . Fewer than half ( 46 % ) know that the Republicans will have a majority only in the House of Representatives when the new Congress convenes in January , while 38 % can identify John Boehner as the incoming House speaker .
A Pew Research Center survey , conducted Sept. 1 - 4 , 2016 , among 1,004 adults ( including 815 registered voters ) , asked voters which of five key issues would be most important in their vote for president . The economy tops the list , with 37 % of registered voters saying this will be the most important issue for them . An additional 18 % choose health care and 14 % say terrorism . Immigration and gun policy are each named by 13 % of voters . When asked specifically about national economic issues , the job situation shares top billing with the budget deficit in terms of issues that voters say are important to their choice for president . Among the six economic issues tested , 43 % of voters say that jobs will be either the most important or the second most important issue to their vote for president ; 43 % give the same weight to the federal budget deficit . By comparison , other economic issues – tax reform , income inequality , rising prices and global trade – are viewed as less important to voters .
However , it is clear that in addition to democracy , the economy and public safety are top priorities . Fully 83 % rate improving economic conditions as very important , and 62 % believe it is very important to live in a country with law and order .
The biggest difference between populists and nonpopulists is in the Czech Republic . Around six-in-ten ( 61 % ) of those with a favorable view of the Czech Freedom and Direct Democracy party ( SPD ) have confidence in Putin on world affairs , compared with just 24 % of those with an unfavorable view of the party . SPD leaders have been vocal about their opposition to Western sanctions on Russia after the annexation of Crimea and have aligned themselves with the Czech Republic 's pro-Russia president .
With the media and the public so highly focused on the economy and the presidential campaign last week , other news stories attracted relatively little attention . While 29 % of the public say they followed news about the current situation in Iraq very closely , only 2 % listed this as the single news story they were following more closely than any other . The media devoted 1 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq .
In the days before Barack Obama and George W. Bush took the oath of office , majorities also said it was too early to tell how successful their presidencies would be . But in both cases , those that did offer predictions were more likely to say each would be successful than unsuccessful . For example , in 2009 30 % said Obama would be successful while just 4 % predicted he would be unsuccessful ; 65 % said it was too early to tell .
While the public appears increasingly attentive to election news , four-in-ten say they followed news about the rescue of the miners – heavily covered and broadcast live on television – more closely than any other news last week . Nearly two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the economy most closely ; 15 % say they followed news about the elections most closely .
92 % — Percentage of LGBT adults in America who say society has become more accepting of them over the past 10 years .
Pew Research Center , in collaboration with Abt SRBI , appended two different activity flags ( Cell-WINS and Targus ) in a large ( n=10,013 ) national dual frame RDD survey in 2014 . Half of the interviews in that study were conducted on cellphones and half on landlines . With the Cell-WINS flag , 15 % of flagged-inactive cellphone numbers were found to be working and residential ( false negatives ) , and one-in-ten flagged-active numbers were found to be non-working or non-residential ( false positives ) . With the Targus flag , both error rates were higher .
Nearly 26,000 refugees entered the U.S. from October to December 2016 , close to the quarterly average number of refugees needed to meet the Obama administration 's target of 110,000 refugee admissions in fiscal year 2017 , according to data from the U.S. State Department 's Refugee Processing Center . The 2017 annual ceiling – the highest since 1995 – is significantly higher than last year 's ceiling of 85,000 refugee admissions . Administration officials said they wanted to increase refugee admissions to the U.S. due to the growing number of people displaced by conflicts around the world . In the first quarter of fiscal 2017 ( October to December 2016 ) , almost twice as many refugees have entered the U.S. as in the first quarter of the year before , when nearly 14,000 refugees entered the country .
Health experts are concerned about the potential mental health effects of the coronavirus outbreak in the United States , and mental health hotlines report a substantial uptick in calls since the outbreak began . Nearly one-in-five U.S. adults ( 18 % ) say they have had a physical reaction at least some or a little of the time when thinking about the outbreak , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted March 19 - 24 . This is particularly true of those affected financially .
There is a substantial partisan gap in views of how Obama will go down in history . Fully 71 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say he will be remembered as an outstanding ( 30 % ) or above average ( 40 % ) president , while just 4 % predict history will consider him below average or poor ( 24 % expect him to be viewed as average ) .
There also are demographic differences in concerns over language that may offend others . About two-thirds of men ( 68 % ) say too many people are easily offended by language today , compared with only about half ( 51 % ) of women . Among blacks , 67 % say people should be more careful with language to avoid offending people of different backgrounds , while just 30 % say too many people are easily offended by language these days . Among whites , opinions are reversed : 67 % say too many are easily offended , compared with 32 % who think more care should be taken to not offend others .
Those who have been harassed by someone they know are also more likely to turn to others for support : 55 % sought out some type of help or support during their most recent indident , compared with 31 % of those who were harassed by a stranger or somone anonymous . This group is especially likely to turn to other friends or family members for support : 39 % did so after their most recent encounter , compared with 16 % of those whose harasser was unknown to them .
However , districts ' willingness to split their tickets – choose one party 's presidential nominee and the other party 's candidate for representative – has been on a steep decline for more than two decades . In 2012 , only 26 House districts out of 435 ( 6 % ) split their votes , according to our analysis of district-level election results . Of these , 17 voted to re-elect President Obama but sent a GOP representative to Capitol Hill ; nine opted for Mitt Romney and also a Democratic representative . ( On an individual voter level , a Pew Research Center analysis in 2014 estimated that about eight-in-ten likely voters in areas with multiple major contests would vote a straight-party ticket that fall . Split-ticket voting also has declined at the state level . ) First , split-ticket districts were overwhelmingly Republican for the presidency but Democratic when it came to the House ( a combined 92.6 % of all split-ticket districts in the five election cycles between 1972 and 1988 ) . And second , tickets in Southern districts were far more likely to be split than those in any other region : Of all districts that split their presidential and House votes between 1972 and 1988 , 41.2 % were from Southern states even though the South accounted for just 31.5 % of all House seats . This was well above the shares in any of the other three Census-defined regions . In 1972 , two-thirds of all Southern districts split their presidential and House votes ; as recently as 1988 more than half still did .
Americans are closely divided in their view of the news media 's coverage of climate change . Some 47 % of U.S. adults say the media does a good job covering global climate change , while 51 % say they do a bad job . A 58 % majority of people following climate news very closely say the media do a good job , however . Conservative Republicans stand out as more negative in their overall views about climate change news coverage .
Despite Russians ' lukewarm view of the economy , a majority ( 55 % ) still approves of Putin 's handling of the issue . Putin also has the support of more than half the country when it comes to energy policy and civil society . The only area included in the survey in which he fails to earn majority approval is the issue of corruption .
Around seven-in-ten Hispanic voters ( 68 % ) say gun laws should be stricter than they are today , while 24 % say current gun laws are about right . Only 7 % say gun laws should be less strict . The survey was conducted several months after a mass shooting in El Paso , Texas , involving a suspect who said he targeted Mexicans . Among Hispanic Democratic voters , 80 % say gun laws should be stricter . Hispanic Republican voters are more evenly divided , with 44 % saying gun laws should be stricter and 42 % saying gun laws are about right .
A large majority of Americans ( 83 % ) say the choice of the next Supreme Court justice is either very or somewhat important to them personally , with 63 % saying it is very important . Just 16 % say it is not too important or not at all important . Similar majorities of Republicans and Republican leaners and Democrats and Democratic leaners say the choice is very important to them personally ( 66 % and 65 % , respectively ) .
Tolerance for homosexuality is widespread in the U.S. and Western Europe , but far more Western Europeans than Americans say homosexuality should be accepted by society ; at least eight-in-ten in Spain ( 91 % ) , Germany ( 87 % ) , France ( 86 % ) and Britain ( 81 % ) , compared with 60 % in the U.S .
About two-in-ten ( 22 % ) of the public say they very closely followed news about proposals for stricter regulation of banks and financial institutions ; 4 % say they followed this news most closely . The debate over new financial regulations accounted for 5 % of coverage . Just 7 % very closely followed news about the government crackdown on protesters in Thailand . This story accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Slightly more than half of U.S. adults ( 54 % ) said in a Pew Research Center survey conducted in May 2017 that they were somewhat or very worried about the development of driverless vehicles , while 40 % said they were at least somewhat enthusiastic about it . A majority of U.S. adults ( 56 % ) also said they would not personally want to ride in a driverless car if they had the opportunity , compared with 44 % who would . The most common reasons cited by Americans who said they would not personally want to ride in a self-driving car were a lack of trust or fear of giving up control to a machine ( 42 % ) and other specific safety concerns ( 30 % ) . Among those who said they would want to ride in a self-driving car , the largest share ( 37 % ) cited a love of technology and/or a desire for an exciting or new experience . Another 17 % pointed to safety in the belief that a driverless car would be safer than a car driven by a human .
More than 1,800 refugees from Iran , Iraq , Libya , Somalia , Sudan , Syria and Yemen have resettled in the U.S. since a federal court judge suspended key parts of an executive order President Donald Trump signed on Jan. 27 that restricted travel from these seven nations , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . Virtually all of these refugees were admitted after a federal court judge suspended the president 's executive order .
Looking ahead , the public has mixed views of how they think the national economy will perform over the next year . About as many say conditions will be better in a year ( 32 % ) as say they will be worse ( 29 % ) ; 37 % think they will be about the same as they are now .
In addition to asking people whether they might engage at all with a public health official during the COVID-19 outbreak , this survey explored another dimension of potential cooperation – comfort with sharing several pieces of relevant information within the contact tracing process . Before they answered this question , individuals were told : `` In ‘ contact tracing , ' public health officials interview people who have a confirmed COVID-19 diagnosis in order to identify everyone who has had contact with them , and who are therefore at risk of getting COVID-19 . '' Individuals were asked about their comfort with sharing the names of people they may have been in physical contact with , places they have recently visited and location data from their cellphone .
Some 35 % of Americans view the potential use of synthetic blood in healthy people as morally unacceptable , while about a fifth ( 22 % ) say it would be morally acceptable and 41 % are not sure . People with moral reservations about using synthetic blood in this way often described this idea as `` disrupting nature '' or `` playing God . '' One survey respondent stated :
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu receives overwhelmingly negative ratings in neighboring countries . At least nine-in-ten in neighboring Lebanon ( 99 % ) , Palestinian territories ( 96 % ) , Jordan ( 95 % ) and Egypt ( 92 % ) have an unfavorable view of the Israeli leader ; 85 % in Tunisia and 70 % in Turkey also express negative opinions of Netanyahu .
Spanish-language television reached a new milestone in America . Univision finished first among broadcast networks during July sweeps in two highly sought-after demographics : 18- to 49-year-olds and 18- to 34-year-olds . According to Nielsen , between June 27 , 2013 , and July 24 , 2013 , Univision averaged 1.8 million viewers ages 18 to 49 nightly , beating out English-language networks FOX , NBC , CBS and ABC , all of which have been struggling with declining audiences for decades .
Overall , the world resettled 103,000 refugees in 2017 , down from 189,000 in 2016 . The broad-based decline included decreases in other leading countries in refugee resettlement , such as Canada and Australia , though the drops in these countries were more modest than those in the U.S . The decline in refugee resettlement comes as the global refugee population increased by 2.75 million , and reached a record 19.9 million in 2017 , according to UNHCR . This exceeds the high in 1990 , following the fall of the Berlin Wall .
On the broader question of overall race relations in American society , the overwhelming majority ( 92 % ) of white officers say the U.S. has made the changes needed to give blacks equal rights with whites ; just 29 % of black officers agree . The general public is divided along racial lines on this question , too , but not as much as police officers : About six-in-ten whites ( 57 % ) say the country has made the changes needed to bring about equal rights for blacks , compared with just 12 % of blacks .
In several states , in fact , the `` alternative '' has become the norm . In 2012 , there were 12 states – including several that are battlegrounds this year – in which nontraditional voting methods accounted for more than half the total vote . In North Carolina , for instance , early and absentee voting yielded nearly 2.8 million of the state 's total 4.5 million votes . In Arizona , nearly two-thirds of the 2012 vote was cast absentee . In Florida , early and absentee balloting each accounted for well over a quarter of the total vote ; only 44 % of Florida 's voters cast their ballots in the traditional way . And in Oregon and Washington , elections already were conducted entirely by mail ( they 're being joined by Colorado starting this year ) . In the 1970s and ' 80s , states began experimenting with other types of nontraditional voting . Eliminating special residency requirements and the need for a specific excuse to vote absentee was a common first step : California , Oregon and Washington were among the first states to introduce `` no-excuse '' absentee voting . Today , 27 states and the District of Columbia offer no-excuse absentee voting , compared with just 11 in 1992 .
Today 's military is comprised of service members who served during a wide range of eras , from World War II to the post-9/11 conflicts . But the share who served in pre-9/11 eras will dwindle in future decades . In 2015 , the largest share of veterans first served during the Vietnam era ( 33 % ) . Projections from the Department of Veterans Affairs show the waning influence of veterans from the World War II , Korean War and Vietnam eras . By 2045 , the largest share of living veterans will have first served in the post-9/11 Gulf War era ( 35 % ) .
While Democrats are far more supportive than Republicans of legalizing the use of marijuana , they have similar views of a hypothetical presidential candidate who used marijuana in the past . Large majorities of Democrats ( 78 % ) and Republicans ( 74 % ) say a candidate 's past use of marijuana would not matter . Democrats and Republicans also have about the same views of a candidate who has had personal financial troubles . Roughly four-in-ten in both parties ( 42 % ) say they would be less likely to support such a candidate , while 50 % of Republicans and 48 % of Democrats say this would not matter .
Partisanship colors Catholics ' perceptions of how religious Trump and Biden are . Overall , around six-in-ten Catholics ( 59 % ) say they think Biden is `` very '' or `` somewhat '' religious , according to a February 2020 survey . White and Hispanic Catholics express similar views of Biden 's religiousness , but Democratic Catholics ( 72 % ) are far more likely than Republican Catholics ( 46 % ) to say that he is at least somewhat religious .
Among registered Republican voters , Trump supporters stand out for their negative view of free trade : 67 % of Trump supporters say free trade agreements have been a bad thing for the U.S. , while just 27 % say they have been a good thing . Republican supporters of Ted Cruz ( 48 % good thing vs. 40 % bad thing ) and John Kasich ( 44 % good thing vs. 46 % bad thing ) hold more mixed views .
Roughly a third of Americans ( 32 % ) say they have had a virtual party or social gathering with friends or family , according to the April 7 - 12 survey . ( Survey questions were posed to internet users on the Center 's American Trends Panel . Throughout this analysis , findings are reported as shares of the adult population . ) Besides turning to digital means to socialize , one-in-five Americans say they have watched a concert or a play that was livestreamed through the internet or an app . And with fitness centers , gyms and even some public parks closed , 18 % of Americans say they have participated in an online fitness class or done an online workout video at home .
With regard to specific security policies , 50 % say the use of military drones to target extremists in Pakistan and other countries in the region has made the United States safer from terrorism , just 14 % say it has made the U.S. less safe , while 27 % say it has not made a difference . The government 's phone and internet surveillance programs get mixed grades : 39 % say they have made the nation safer from terrorism , 14 % less safe and 38 % say they have not made a difference . Finally , as the war in Afghanistan is winding down , just 31 % of the public say the 12-year-long conflict has made the country safer from terrorism , 21 % say it has made the U.S. less safe , and the plurality view ( 43 % ) is that it has not made a difference in U.S. security .
Caregivers are heavy technology users and are much more likely than other adults to take part in a wide range of health-related activities .
There are racial , gender , religious and political divides in opinions on the death penalty in the U.S. A majority of whites ( 59 % ) favor the death penalty , compared with 36 % of blacks and 47 % of Hispanics , according to the Center 's 2018 survey . Also , men are more likely than women to favor capital punishment ( 61 % vs. 46 % ) . Solid majorities of white evangelical Protestants ( 73 % ) and white mainline Protestants ( 61 % ) favor the death penalty , while Catholics ( 53 % ) and those without a religious affiliation ( 48 % ) are more divided on the issue . Partisanship also plays a role , with Republicans more than twice as likely as Democrats to support the death penalty ( 77 % vs. 35 % ) .
Americans who prefer to get their local news in print are much more likely to pay for it than those who prefer other platforms . About four-in-ten of these news consumers ( 39 % ) say they have paid for local news in the past year . That is more than double the share among those who prefer to get news either from the radio ( 16 % ) or news websites or apps ( 12 % ) , and around four times the share of those who prefer to get local news from TV ( 10 % ) . It also far exceeds the share among those who prefer to get local news via social media ( 8 % ) . Print news consumers are also more pessimistic about the financial well-being of their local news media when compared with most other groups . Almost six-in-ten print consumers ( 63 % ) think their local news media outlets are doing well financially , 15 percentage points lower than the share among those who prefer TV for local news ( 77 % ) . Those who prefer radio are about on par with those who prefer print , while those who prefer digital platforms fall in between .
When it comes to specific policy issues , Catholics are often more aligned with their political party than with the teachings of their church . On abortion , for example , 77 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning Catholic adults say they think abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 63 % of Republican and Republican-leaning Catholics say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , according to a 2019 survey . This divide exists despite the Catholic Church 's formal opposition to abortion . On immigration , 91 % of Catholic Democrats oppose expanding the wall along the border between the U.S. and Mexico , while 81 % of Catholic Republicans favor expanding the wall , according to a separate 2019 survey . The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has condemned Trump 's plan to build such a wall , and Pope Francis described the desire to build a border wall as `` not Christian . ''
5 Americans with a high school education or less are more likely than college graduates to believe in God or a higher power ( 94 % vs. 84 % ) . They also are more likely than those who graduated from college to believe in the God of the Bible ( 66 % vs. 45 % ) and to believe that a higher power determines what happens in their lives most or all of the time ( 59 % vs. 33 % ) .
Adults who have never been married or who are currently living with a partner are the most likely to say they have ever used an online dating service : 52 % and 46 % , respectively , say this . By comparison , 35 % of Americans who are divorced , separated or widowed say they have ever used a dating site or app , while 16 % of married adults say the same , according to a new analysis of a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October 2019 . The share of Americans who have ever used an online dating platform has gone up across marital status groups , but the increase has been most pronounced among those living with a partner . The share of cohabiting Americans who say they had ever used a dating site or app has roughly tripled from 15 % in 2015 to 46 % today . ( Pew Research Center 's 2015 survey about online dating was conducted via telephone , while the 2019 survey was fielded online through the Center 's American Trends Panel . In addition , there were some changes in question wording between these surveys . Please read the methodology section for full details on how the 2019 survey was conducted . )
Age gaps are evident on many of these values . Older adults are more inclined to prioritize teaching religious faith to the next generation , a pattern that is in keeping with the growth of the religiously unaffiliated among the younger generations . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those ages 65 and older say this is important to teach , and fully 41 % regard it as one of the most important qualities to instill ; by contrast , just 40 % of those younger than 30 rate teaching religious faith as important and 17 % name it as one of the most important qualities .
Those who have contributed money to a political candidate or group in the past year are much more likely than those who have not made a recent contribution to say that their representative in Congress would help them if they had a problem . They are also more likely to say ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence the government in Washington if they are willing to make the effort . Overall , 37 % of Americans say that they feel it is at least somewhat likely their representative would help them with a problem if they contacted her or him . However , about half ( 53 % ) of those who have given money to a political candidate or group in the last year believe their representative would help . Belief that one 's member of Congress will help them with a problem is highest ( 63 % ) among the subset of donors who have given more than $ 250 to a candidate or campaign in the past year . A similar pattern is seen on the question of whether or not people feel ordinary citizens can make a difference . Among those who did not make a political contribution in the past year , about half say there is a lot ordinary citizens can do to influence the government in Washington . By comparison , 66 % of donors , including 74 % of those who gave more than $ 250 , say there is a lot ordinary citizens can do to make a difference .
Seven-in-ten Americans say the U.S. should cooperate more with Germany , but only 41 % of Germans say Germany should cooperate more with the U.S. German views on this question have become more negative in the past year : In 2017 , a 56 % majority of Germans said they should collaborate more with the U.S . When asked about cooperation with other major powers , Americans and Germans generally agree that their countries should cooperate more with France , the United Kingdom and China . But when it comes to Russia , people in the U.S. and Germany sharply diverge . A majority of Americans ( 58 % ) want to cooperate less with their Cold War adversary , while nearly seven-in-ten Germans ( 69 % ) want to cooperate more with Russia , the source of about a third of Germany 's natural gas imports as of 2015 .
When asked whether a series of top problems will get better , get worse or stay the same in the next five years , the Chinese public offers mixed views . More than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) believe corruption problems will improve in the next five years . A plurality ( 43 % ) is also optimistic that progress will be made in food safety . However , the public is split on water pollution : 37 % believe it will get better over the next five years , while 34 % believe it will get worse . Similar divides are found on air pollution ( 36 % better , 34 % worse ) and the gap between the rich and poor ( 35 % better , 31 % worse ) .
Younger adults are more likely than older adults to say they have heard of people preferring gender-neutral pronouns and to know someone who goes by these pronouns . Roughly three-quarters of Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 73 % ) say they have heard a little or a lot about people preferring nonbinary pronouns , compared with about two-thirds of those 30 to 49 ( 65 % ) and smaller shares of those ages 50 to 64 ( 54 % ) and 65 and older ( 46 % ) . Meanwhile , about three-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 32 % ) personally know someone who goes by these types of pronouns , compared with smaller shares of older adults .
Respondents who have no religious affiliation are the most likely to think that science and religion , in general , are often in conflict , with 76 % expressing this view . But just one-in-six religiously unaffiliated adults ( 16 % ) say their own religious beliefs conflict with science . ( Those who are religiously unaffiliated often have supernatural beliefs and spiritual practices , even though they say they do not feel connected to a particular religion . Only about a third of the unaffiliated say they are atheist or agnostic ; most describe their religion as `` nothing in particular . '' )
Race relations : Nearly a year into Trump 's presidency , a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say his election has worsened race relations in the United States . Three-in-ten say Trump 's election has not made a difference when it comes to race relations , and just 8 % say his election has made them better . Just after Trump 's election in 2016 , nearly half of Republican voters ( 48 % ) said they expected his election to lead to improved race relations . Roughly a year later , just 17 % of Republicans say it has . Meanwhile , about eight-in-ten Democratic voters ( 83 % ) say Trump 's election has made race relations worse , little different than the share who expected his election to lead to worse race relations in November 2016 ( 81 % ) .
Perhaps the most telling partisan divisions are on how easy voting should be in the United States . Overall , two-thirds of the public ( 67 % ) says `` everything possible should be done to make it easy for every citizen to vote , '' while only about a third ( 32 % ) say citizens `` should have to prove they want to vote '' by registering in advance .
Over the past three decades , the share of wage and salary workers in the United States who belong to labor unions has fallen by about half . The public expresses mixed views of the impact of the long-term decline in union membership on the country : 45 % say this has been mostly a bad thing , while 43 % see it as mostly a good thing .
Republicans and Democrats in the ideological middle within their respective parties ( that is , moderate/liberal Republicans and moderate/conservative Democrats ) fall somewhere in between in terms of how they see human activity influencing climate change . For instance , 35 % of moderate or liberal Republicans say human activity has a great deal of impact on climate change , while roughly two-thirds of moderate or conservative Democrats ( 64 % ) see it as a major contributor .
China 's reputation among Americans had already fallen to an all-time low in Pew Research Center polling as of March , with roughly two-thirds viewing the country unfavorably . Now , a survey conducted April 29 to May 5 finds that Americans expect China 's international reputation will suffer because of how the country has handled the coronavirus outbreak , which originated within its borders . Americans are also critical of how China has handled the global pandemic and are skeptical of information from the Chinese government . Americans are very critical of the way China has handled the coronavirus outbreak . Nearly two-thirds of Americans say China has not handled the global pandemic well , rating its performance as the worst ( alongside Italy ) among the six countries asked about in the April and May survey . And more give China the lowest possible rating – poor – for its dealings with the coronavirus than they do any other country ( 37 % , compared with 27 % who said the same of Italy ) .
Though support for Clinton is widespread among Democratic voters , there is a gender gap in the strength of her support among white Democratic voters . Overall , 62 % of women and 54 % of men say there is a good chance they would vote for Clinton . But these differences are particularly evident among whites : 61 % of white Democratic women say there is a good chance they would vote for Clinton compared with 43 % of white Democratic men . Conversely , more white Democratic men ( 45 % ) than women ( 26 % ) see some chance of voting for Clinton . Only about 10 % in each group sees no chance of voting for her .
Republicans are far more concerned that the U.S. will not go far enough in stopping Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria ( 63 % -30 % ) . By contrast , Democrats ( 57 % -32 % ) and independents ( 51 % -41 % ) express more concern over the U.S. going too far getting involved in the situation .
More than eight-in-ten Americans rate press coverage of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan as excellent ( 43 % ) or good ( 42 % ) . Almost as many say the same about coverage of the shooting of Gabrielle Giffords in early January ( 34 % excellent , 40 % good ) . But when it comes to domestic stories focused on economics and politics , the press gets much lower marks . Just 4 % say the news media has done an excellent job covering discussions about how to address the federal budget deficit , 27 % say coverage has been good . Nearly two-thirds rate the job the press has done as only fair ( 40 % ) or poor ( 24 % ) .
While the nation 's budget deficit may be the focus in Washington , the public continues to view the job situation as the most worrisome national economic issue . Four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say the job situation is the top economic worry , while 25 % say the federal budget deficit . These views have changed little since March . And there has been no improvement in the Republican Party 's image over the past year . The job approval rating of Republican congressional leaders , which fell to just 22 % in August of 2011 after the debt ceiling debate , stands virtually unchanged at 25 % today . Meanwhile , the job rating for both Democratic leaders in Congress ( now 40 % up from 29 % in August 2011 ) and Obama ( 55 % up from 43 % ) have rebounded by double-digits .
New York stands out for the racial and ethnic diversity of its immigrant eligible voters . Asians ( 26 % ) , Latinos ( 25 % ) and whites ( 25 % ) make up similar shares of the state 's immigrant eligible voters , while black immigrants ( 21 % ) are a slightly lower share .
Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) believe the share of people with the coronavirus is higher in the U.S. than in most other nations , 18 % believe the U.S. share is lower and about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) think the U.S. experience is about the same as most other nations . More Democrats ( 66 % , including leaners ) than Republicans ( 30 % , including leaners ) think the share of people with COVID-19 is higher in the U.S. than most other nations .
In one indicator of their commitment to help others , 73 % of Japanese believe that Japanese companies should increase their investment in developing nations . Just 19 % oppose such business activity . Roughly as many Japanese ( 71 % ) support importing more goods from developing nations in Asia , Africa and Latin America . Again , only a fifth of the public opposes such commercial help for poor nations . And 66 % of Japanese back increasing foreign aid to developing countries , while 27 % oppose boosting such assistance . ( Currently , Japan commits 0.22 % of its gross national income to foreign aid , according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . By comparison , the U.S. donates 0.17 % and the UK 0.71 % . ) Notably , Japanese men ( 74 % ) are more likely than women ( 58 % ) to support increased foreign aid for developing countries . )
The most common type of harassment youth encounter online is name-calling . Some 42 % of teens say they have been called offensive names online or via their cellphone . Additionally , about a third ( 32 % ) of teens say someone has spread false rumors about them on the internet , while smaller shares have had someone other than a parent constantly ask where they are , who they 're with or what they 're doing ( 21 % ) or have been the target of physical threats online ( 16 % ) .
When asked whether it is acceptable in Islam to visit shrines of Muslim saints , Iraqi Muslims are split along sectarian lines , with Shias nearly unanimous in their approval ( 98 % ) , compared with roughly two-thirds of Sunnis ( 65 % ) who say it is acceptable . Likewise , in neighboring Iran , the vast majority of Iranian Shias ( 89 % ) say it is acceptable to visit shrines of saints , but only 28 % of Sunnis agree . In some countries with very few Shias , Sunni Muslims are even less accepting of such practices : as few as 4 % of Egyptian Sunnis and 3 % of Jordanian Sunnis say visiting shrines is permissible .
On a separate question , more than six-in-ten in India ( 63 % ) agreed that a university education is more important for a boy than for a girl , the highest number to say this in the survey . About half in Pakistan ( 51 % ) , Egypt ( 50 % ) and China ( 48 % ) also expressed this view . In the U.S. , 83 % disagreed . Similarly , more than eight-in-ten disagreed in Britain ( 87 % ) , Brazil ( 87 % ) , France ( 87 % ) , Mexico ( 84 % ) and Germany ( 83 % ) . Virtually all of those surveyed in Lebanon ( 97 % ) disagreed .
Rural internet users are now just as likely as users in urban and suburban areas to have used these sites . Some 68 % of rural internet users have gone to such sites , compared with 71 % of online suburbanites and 72 % of online urban residents . Those are statistically insignificant differences and show that since 2009 , online rural residents have caught up to others in using these sites .
Losses for Catholics have meant gains for Protestant churches and the category of people who do not identify with any religion . Just 9 % of adults in the region were raised Protestant and 4 % were raised unaffiliated , but twice as many now describe themselves as Protestants ( 19 % ) or unaffiliated ( 8 % ) . Most Protestants across Latin America identify as Pentecostal Christians or are members of Pentecostal denominations .
At the same time , income dynamics among couples have shifted . In 1980 , only 13 % of married women earned more than or about as much as their husbands . By 2000 , the share had risen to 25 % . Today , 31 % of women who are married or cohabiting are contributing at least half of the couple 's total earnings ( including 28 % who earn more than their husband or partner and 3 % who earn about the same amount ) . In 69 % of married or cohabiting couples , the man earns more than the woman , though this is down from 87 % of married couples in 1980 .
Opinions about homosexuality and the possible impact same-sex marriage also have shifted substantially over the past decade . In 2003 , as the debate over same-sex marriage intensified and Massachusetts became the first state to allow same-sex marriage , a 56 % majority of Americans felt that allowing gays and lesbians to marry would undermine the traditional American family , while 39 % disagreed . Today , 46 % say same-sex marriage would undermine the traditional family while slightly more ( 51 % ) disagree .
In 2010 , Pew Research surveyed publics in a number of countries , seven of which are also represented in this pay gap data , about whether `` men get more opportunities than women for jobs that pay well , even when women are as qualified as men for the job . '' Majorities in all seven countries agreed with the statement . Agreement ranged from about seven-in-ten in the U.S. and Spain ( 68 % ) , and up to more than eight-in-ten in Poland ( 83 % ) and Germany ( 84 % ) .
Partisanship has long been a major factor in public attitudes about labor unions . In the new survey , 68 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say the reduction in union membership has been mostly bad for working people ; half as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 34 % ) say the same . By about two-to-one , blacks are more likely to say the decline in union representation has been mostly bad for working people than that it has been mostly good ( 65 % vs. 29 % ) . Smaller shares of whites ( 49 % ) or Hispanics ( 52 % ) say it has been mostly bad .
As the June 30 deadline for negotiations over its nuclear program approaches , a new Pew Research Center poll finds that attitudes toward Iran are mostly negative worldwide . Majorities or pluralities in 31 of 40 countries surveyed hold an unfavorable opinion of the Islamic Republic . And in several Muslim-majority countries in the Middle East and Asia , ratings have declined considerably in recent years .
The FBI , CIA , and Department of Justice remain popular with the public . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) say they have a favorable view of the FBI and roughly six-in-ten view the CIA ( 62 % ) and the Justice Department ( 61 % ) favorably . Views of the FBI are little changed over the last year , while views of the CIA and Justice Department have improved modestly during this time period .
Relatively few adults in every country surveyed score above 5 on the scale . But there is considerable variation across countries . In Sweden , just 8 % of those surveyed scored higher than 5 , the lowest amount in any country , while in Italy , 38 % did , the highest share in any country . In most countries , the share scoring 5.01 or higher was between 15 % and 25 % . For example , in both Norway and France , 19 % of respondents scored 5.01 or higher .
With so much public attention focused on the oil leak , only small percentages say they followed any of the other top stories most closely last week . Just 10 % say this about the second ranked story , news about the economy . Fewer name the World Cup soccer tournament in South Africa ( 6 % ) , the situation and events in Afghanistan ( 3 % ) , drug-related violence in Mexico ( 2 % ) or ethnic violence in Kyrgyzstan ( 1 % ) . Similar patterns are seen in news coverage . The oil leak accounted for 44 % of the newshole , far surpassing coverage of the economy ( 7 % ) and Afghanistan ( 5 % ) . Drug-related violence in Mexico consumed less than 1 % of all news coverage .
On average , white evangelical Protestants are less likely than non-evangelical Protestants to have a great deal of trust in medical scientists ( 31 % vs. 41 % , respectively ) and scientists ( 25 % vs. 36 % ) . These differences remain even after controlling for party identification and education .
Roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) followed the floods in the Midwest very closely , up from 34 % a week earlier . The floods were the public 's top story last week with twice as many people citing the floods as their most closely followed story than cited the presidential campaign ( 38 % vs. 19 % ) . By contrast , news organizations devoted somewhat more coverage to the campaign than to the flooding . Still , public interest in Midwestern flooding is far lower than it was for the region 's historic 1993 floods . In August 1993 , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) followed the flooding very closely .
These teachers see disparities in access to digital tools having at least some impact on their students . More than half ( 54 % ) say all or almost all of their students have sufficient access to digital tools at school , but only a fifth of these teachers ( 18 % ) say all or almost all of their students have access to the digital tools they need at home .
As of July 12 , the current federal judiciary overall consists of 725 active judges across 94 district courts , 13 appeals courts , the Supreme Court and one additional court , the Court of International Trade . ( This analysis counts only Article III judges who are included in the Federal Judicial Center 's biographical database , which excludes three district-level courts in U.S . territories . ) Of these judges , 58 % were appointed by Democratic presidents and 42 % were appointed by Republicans , according to the Center 's analysis . But these shares differ considerably by the level of court in question . Five of the nine current Supreme Court justices ( counting Justice Anthony Kennedy , whose retirement takes effect on July 31 ) were appointed by Republican presidents . The appeals courts are roughly evenly populated with appellate judges appointed by Democratic ( 51 % ) and Republican presidents ( 49 % ) . In district courts , 61 % of active judges were appointed by Democratic presidents and just 39 % were appointed by Republicans .
Sub-Saharan Africa has experienced dramatic gains in internet use in recent years . With this rapid growth in connectivity have come a host of potential problems , including fake news , political targeting and manipulation and financial scams , among others . Yet according to a new Pew Research Center analysis , most sub-Saharan Africans feel positively about the role the internet plays in their country . Large majorities say the increasing use of the internet has had a good influence on education in their country , and half or more say the same about the economy , personal relationships and politics . Only when it comes to the issue of morality are sub-Saharan Africans somewhat more divided about the role the internet is playing . Across six major nations surveyed in the region , a median of 45 % say the internet has had a positive impact on morality , while 39 % say it is has been negative . These views vary substantially by country . For example , a majority of Nigerians ( 57 % ) believe the internet is having a good influence on morality , while more than half of Senegalese ( 54 % ) say the opposite .
In looking ahead to this fall 's elections , Republicans are more likely than Democrats to view a candidate 's position on the Affordable Care Act as very important to their vote . A new national survey finds that 64 % of Republican registered voters say a candidate 's stance on the health care law will be very important in their voting decision , compared with 52 % of Democrats and 45 % of independents .
As Americans look ahead to the presidential election this November , nearly eight-in-ten adults ( 79 % ) say it is at least somewhat important for the losing candidate to publicly acknowledge the winner of the election as legitimate , including a majority ( 54 % ) who say this is very important . This represents a slight increase since November 2016 , when 74 % said it was at least somewhat important for a losing candidate to publicly concede .
STEM workers enjoy a pay advantage compared with non-STEM workers with similar levels of education . Among those with some college education , the typical full-time , year-round STEM worker earns $ 54,745 while a similarly educated non-STEM worker earns $ 40,505 , or 26 % less . And among those with the highest levels of education , STEM workers out-earn their non-STEM counterparts by a similar margin . Non-STEM workers with a master 's degree typically earn 26 % less than STEM workers with similar education . The median earnings of non-STEM workers with a professional or doctoral degree trail their STEM counterparts by 24 % .
Overall in states where there is a Senate contest , support for Senate candidates is roughly evenly divided . The share of voters supporting the Democratic candidate ( 45 % ) in their state is similar to the share supporting the Republican candidate ( 43 % ) , and 8 % of voters say they are n't sure at this point whom they will support .
Looking at the various combinations of responses to those questions , this survey finds that 48 % of Americans would be relatively comfortable or likely to engage with all three of those steps , and 51 % would be relatively resistant to at least one core aspect of the process . In making this calculation , we used a somewhat generous definition of engagement . ( The percentages who actually would cooperate could be higher or lower . ) The 48 % referred to in most of this report as `` comfortable or likely to engage '' with all steps are those who say they would do all of the following in the coronavirus contact tracing process : In addition , younger adults , Hispanic adults , those with lower incomes and those with less formal education are less likely to be fully comfortable or likely to engage with the process than their counterparts . About four-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 41 % ) say they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three steps , compared with 56 % of those ages 65 and older . And while White and Black adults are similarly likely to fall into this group given their responses – about half of each group expresses full comfort or likelihood engaging – Hispanic adults are less likely to say this ( four-in-ten Hispanic adults say so ) .
The 2012 Pew Research survey also found that single mothers were much more likely than married mothers to say their ideal situation would be to work full time . Single mothers , often the sole provider in their household , have a much lower family income than married mothers , on average . It 's not surprising , then , that among unmarried mothers , nearly half ( 49 % ) say that their ideal situation would be to work full time , while 36 % say part-time work would be ideal . In contrast , married mothers see part-time work ( 53 % ) as more desirable than full-time work ( 23 % ) . The gap in views between married and unmarried mothers has widened significantly since 2007 , when these two groups of mothers had more similar views about their ideal work situation .
For instance , majorities of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 89 % ) and Republicans and Republican leaners ( 83 % ) say it is important to increase the number of judges handling asylum cases . However , a larger share of Democrats ( 58 % ) than Republicans ( 45 % ) rate this as very important . On other dimensions as well , there are pronounced partisan differences in the intensity of sentiment . For example , majorities in each party say it is at least somewhat important that asylum seekers are provided safe and sanitary conditions once they arrive in the U.S. ( 91 % of Democrats , 73 % of Republicans ) .
Our analysis found that lame duck sessions are shouldering more of the legislative workload than they used to . The last Congress ' lame duck , which stretched from November 2012 past New Year 's Day 2013 , passed only 87 public laws , but that was 30.7 % of the Congress ' entire two-year output and 31.3 % of its substantive output ( that is , excluding post-office renamings , National `` fill-in-the-blank '' Week designations and other purely ceremonial legislation ) . In 2010 , the 99 public laws passed during the 111th Congress ' lame duck session accounted for 25.8 % of all that Congress ' laws ( and 29.2 % of its substantive laws ) .
The latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 1 - 4 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that more people say they learned something about the flu from local television news ( 69 % ) or cable news channels ( 63 % ) than from the nightly network news ( 53 % ) , the internet ( 49 % ) or newspapers ( 48 % ) .
While about two-thirds of Latino ( 65 % ) and black ( 66 % ) adults went online in 2010 , more than three-fourths ( 77 % ) of white adults did so . In terms of broadband use at home , there is a large gap between Latinos ( 45 % ) and whites ( 65 % ) , and the rate among blacks ( 52 % ) is somewhat higher than that of Latinos . Fully 85 % of whites owned a cell phone in 2010 , compared with 76 % of Latinos and 79 % of blacks .2
Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of web users who get political news from The Colbert Report also get news from The Daily Show , another satirical show whose audience also skews liberal , younger and male . Many Colbert Report viewers also get their news from CNN , local TV news and NPR .
Most Christians in the United States ( 63 % ) say that whether someone is a man or a woman is determined by their sex at birth . Among religious `` nones '' – those who identify religiously as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' – about six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say they think a person 's gender is not necessarily determined by the sex they are assigned at birth .
GOP voters see a divided party . In the view of most voters – including most Republicans – the GOP will face the election deeply divided . Fully 80 % of registered voters say the party is mostly divided in its views on issues and vision for the future , while just 17 % say it is mostly united . Seven-in-ten Republican and Republican-leaning voters say the GOP is mostly divided , as do 89 % of Democrats .
Among Democrats , those with high political knowledge are more than three times as likely to say they have heard about QAnon ( 85 % ) as those with low political knowledge ( 25 % ) . And though fewer Republicans overall have heard of QAnon , those with high political knowledge are more than twice as likely ( 59 % ) as those with low political knowledge ( 24 % ) to have heard at least a little about QAnon . ( You can find more details of the political knowledge index here . )
Regardless of whether they are formally registered with a church , people in countries with a mandatory church tax are more likely to self-identify as Christian than are people in Western European countries that do not have any church tax system . In four of the six countries with a mandatory church tax – Austria , Finland , Switzerland and Germany – roughly seven-in-ten or more adults identify as Christians . By contrast , in only two of the six countries surveyed that do not have a church tax – the UK and Ireland – does the share of Christians exceed seven-in-ten . And across Western Europe , the country with the smallest share of Christians ( the Netherlands , 41 % ) does not have a church tax . In some church tax countries , the share of people who identify as Christian generally is declining more slowly than in countries that do not have such taxes . In all 15 Western European countries surveyed , fewer people say they are currently Christian than say they were raised Christian . But the countries with the steepest drops in Christian identification – including Belgium , Norway and the Netherlands – do not have church taxes . And some of the countries with the smallest drops in Christian identification , such as Switzerland and Austria , do have a church tax .
Smartphones , or phones that can connect to the internet and run apps , are the most prevalent type of mobile device in nine of the 11 countries surveyed : A majority of adults ( median of 53 % ) report using a smartphone . Usage is highest in Lebanon ( 86 % ) and Jordan ( 85 % ) , and lowest in India ( 32 % ) . Basic and feature phones are less popular overall , but some countries stand out for their high usage of these less digitally connected phones . In India nearly half of adults ( 47 % ) say they use a basic mobile phone that can not connect to the internet . Sizable shares in Kenya ( 40 % ) , Tunisia ( 37 % ) and Venezuela ( 36 % ) also report using a basic phone . Feature phones are generally the least common devices in the countries surveyed , with few adults ( median of 4 % ) saying they own or share a device that can connect to the internet but is not a smartphone . But feature phones – which offer some of the same features as smartphones , but typically can not support apps – are popular in Mexico , where one-third of adults say they use this type of device . About one-in-five Kenyans ( 21 % ) and Colombians ( 17 % ) also use feature phones .
Turnout among Cuban Americans has regularly been one of the highest among Hispanic eligible voter groups . In 2016 , 58 % of Cubans voted , compared with 55 % of Dominicans , 49 % of Salvadorans , 46 % of Puerto Ricans and 44 % of Mexicans , according to an analysis of Census Bureau data . The voter turnout rate for Latino eligible voters overall was 48 % .
According to `` The Infinite Dial '' report by Edison Research and Triton Digital , the share of the public listening to online radio continues to grow . As of early 2019 , 67 % of Americans ages 12 and older had listened to online radio in the past month , while 60 % had listened in the past week . This is up slightly from 64 % and 57 % , respectively , in 2018 , continuing online radio 's steady year-over-year growth .
Although most people worldwide described their day as typical ( median of 62 % ) and relatively few described it as particularly good ( median of 30 % ) , people in sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America were more likely to view their day positively . Roughly half of Africans ( median of 49 % ) and Latin Americans ( 48 % ) surveyed said their day was particularly good . Other regions – especially Europe ( 73 % ) – overwhelmingly described their day as typical ; only 22 % of Europeans said their day was good . The share of upbeat people was notably higher in several countries surveyed . Half or more responded that their day was good in Nigeria ( 73 % ) , Colombia ( 61 % ) , Ghana ( 60 % ) , Brazil ( 56 % ) , the Philippines ( 53 % ) and Peru ( 50 % ) .
Partisanship plays a role in public opinion of the impact of mobile technology . Adults who support Modi 's BJP are more likely to say mobile phones have had a good influence on politics ( 49 % ) than those who support the Congress party ( 33 % ) . Last September , the president of the BJP encouraged the party 's supporters to spread pro-BJP messages on WhatsApp and other social media platforms – whether those messages are `` true or fake . ''
Overall , 32 % of cell owners used their mobile devices in the 30 days preceding our survey for one or more of these reasons , and cell owners under the age of 25 have high levels of engagement in each of these activities . At the same time , using one 's cell phone to visit a website mentioned during televised programming is relatively common with older cell owners as well—engagement in this behavior does not drop significantly until approximately age 45 .
The vast majority of countries and territories have a minimum voting age of 18 for national elections . The U.S. aligns with most other places in this respect . Out of 237 countries and territories for which the ACE Electoral Knowledge Network has data , 205 have a minimum voting age of 18 . Just 12 countries or territories allow people younger than 18 to vote in national elections . Worldwide , the lowest minimum voting age for national elections is 16 , including in Argentina , Austria and Brazil . The highest is in the United Arab Emirates , where citizens must be 25 . In Italy , there is a split voting age : The minimum voting age for the lower house of Parliament is 18 years old , while voters must be 25 to vote in Senate elections .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness . Looking farther around the globe , however , one finds other countries that share Canada 's reservations with regard to American gentility . ( See chart below ) . In Turkey , an identical 53 % see Americans as rude . This view is shared by larger majorities in Indonesia ( 56 % ) and Jordan ( 64 % ) .
Americans say they tracked news about the newly enacted health care reform law more closely than other major news stories last week , though the health care debate did not dominate coverage as it had during the final votes in Congress late last month . Close to half the public ( 48 % ) followed news about the new health care law most closely last week , dwarfing the 8 % following the other top policy story , the economy , that closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press among 1,016 adults April 1 - 5 . In terms of coverage , economic news rivaled news about health care . The economy made up 10 % of coverage , while health care news made up 9 % .
Although our polls have found broad public unhappiness with the tax system , tax reform has not ranked high on the list of the publics ' priorities in our surveys . Our last in-depth look at the subject , in a 2011 survey , found that while majorities of Republicans ( 60 % ) and Democrats ( 55 % ) agree there is so much wrong with the system that Congress should change it , they come at the issue with very different perspectives . Democrats overwhelmingly ( 73 % ) point to the share wealthy people pay as the biggest concern , while many Republicans ( 42 % ) identify the complexity of the system as the biggest problem .
Latino Democrats and Republicans hold substantially different views . A majority of Democrats ( 69 % ) said their financial situation is in only fair or poor shape , compared with about half of Republicans ( 53 % ) . Latino views also differed by educational attainment , with strong majorities of those who had not completed high school ( 73 % ) and high school graduates ( 68 % ) saying their finances were in only fair or poor shape , compared with 57 % of those with some college education . Younger Hispanics tended to give their finances lower marks than older Hispanics , though the differences were relatively modest . About two-thirds of Hispanics ( 68 % ) ages 18 to 29 said their personal financial situation was in only fair or poor shape , compared with 60 % of those ages 50 and older .
A slight majority of Americans ( 53 % ) think it is generally unacceptable for a white person to use makeup to darken their skin to appear to be a different race as part of a Halloween costume , including 37 % who say this is never acceptable . About one-in-three ( 34 % ) say this is always or sometimes acceptable , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey .
A majority of voters ( 55 % ) say that ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence the government in Washington if they are willing to make the effort , while 44 % say there 's not much ordinary citizens can do . The share who say ordinary citizens can do a lot is down slightly compared December 2016 , when 62 % of voters said this . While overall opinion has changed little since 2016 , there has been a sharp decline in the share of Trump voters who say ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence government , from 67 % four years ago to 42 % today .
The Pew Research Center projections have assumed that the annual immigration level , now about 1.4 million people , will increase slowly by 1 % per year , reaching 2.1 million immigrants in 2050 . ( Figure 3 )
Even though most Western Europeans are not very religious , and those who live in countries with a church tax can opt out of paying it , support for the tradition remains strong in the region , according to a new Pew Research Center report , based on a 2017 survey of 15 countries . The study examines public attitudes toward church taxes by comparing the views of Western Europeans who say they pay such taxes with those who have opted out . Sizable majorities of adults in all six countries with a mandatory tax say they pay it . Eight-in-ten Danes and roughly three-quarters of Austrians ( 76 % ) and Swiss ( 74 % ) say they pay the tax . In each country , a small share of adults – ranging from 8 % in Switzerland to 20 % in Finland – say they used to pay the tax but no longer do so .
In a survey conducted in fall 2018 , more than four-in-five Lebanese adults ( 84 % ) said they use WhatsApp , the highest rate among 11 emerging economies included in the survey . It is the most commonly used social network or messaging platform in Lebanon , beating out Facebook , Instagram and other platforms .
Roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) followed the floods in the Midwest very closely , up from 34 % a week earlier . The floods were the public 's top story last week with twice as many people citing the floods as their most closely followed story than cited the presidential campaign ( 38 % vs. 19 % ) . By contrast , news organizations devoted somewhat more coverage to the campaign than to the flooding . Still , public interest in Midwestern flooding is far lower than it was for the region 's historic 1993 floods . In August 1993 , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) followed the flooding very closely .
Americans tend to be more skeptical of what effects climate change policies have on the economy . Some 30 % of Americans say climate change policies help the U.S. economy , while a roughly equal share ( 31 % ) believes these policies generally hurt the economy . Another 36 % say policies to reduce the effects of global climate change generally make no difference to the U.S. economy . Conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats are at odds on this question . A majority of conservative Republicans ( 66 % ) say these policies generally hurt the U.S. economy , compared with just one-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 11 % ) . And while about half of liberal Democrats ( 53 % ) say climate change policies help the economy , only 8 % of conservative Republicans say the same .
Newsroom employees are far more likely than college-educated workers overall to have a degree in the arts and humanities . About three-quarters ( 77 % ) of college-educated newsroom employees have undergraduate degrees in the arts and humanities , more than three times the share among all college-educated workers in the U.S. ( 23 % ) . College-educated workers overall , by comparison , are much more likely than those working in newsrooms to have bachelor 's degrees in science , engineering and related fields ( 45 % vs. 16 % ) and business ( 22 % vs. 5 % ) , as well as education ( 10 % vs. 3 % ) .
Online women are also more likely than online men to use Facebook and Instagram . Some 77 % of online women are Facebook users , compared with two-thirds of online men . Instagram use follows a similar pattern , with online women being more inclined to use the picture-sharing site than men ( 31 % vs. 24 % ) .
The Japanese public is divided in their view of the prime minister : 48 % have confidence in him to do the right thing in world affairs , 50 % lack such confidence . His support has fallen from a peak of 62 % in 2015 and is now at its lowest since the Center first asked the question about Abe in 2007 .
Despite satisfaction with the country 's overall direction , the Russian public still sees a bevy of problems . Among these , economic issues are the most pressing , especially inflation : 69 % say rising prices are a very big problem for Russia . An additional 25 % say inflation is a moderately big problem , meaning that 94 % of the public is concerned about the issue . Other economic issues near the top in the survey are income inequality and a lack of jobs , with 57 % of Russians saying these are very big problems . Inequality , in particular , is considered a bigger problem among Russians ages 50 and older ( 66 % say it is a very big problem ) and those whose income is below the country median ( 62 % ) . Corruption among the political elite is also a pressing concern among Russians , with 59 % saying it is a very big problem . Concern about corruption is especially common among people who lack confidence in Putin ( of whom 69 % see it as very big problem ) or do not support United Russia ( 67 % ) . Fewer Russians are concerned about corrupt business leaders ( 44 % ) .
The six-party talks on North Korea – involving the United States , South Korea , North Korea , China , Japan and Russia – slated to begin Aug. 27 in Beijing reflect global public concern that the regime in Pyongyang poses a serious threat to Asian stability . But U.S. efforts to defuse the North Korean crisis take place against a backdrop of rising anti-Americanism in South Korea and occur at a time when fewer South Koreans show concern about the threat posed by their northern neighbor than do Americans , Australians and many Europeans .
The analysis also examined the kinds of hospitals Americans live closest to . Nationally , two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) live closest to a nonprofit hospital , but people in rural areas are more likely than those in suburban and urban areas to live closest to a government-run hospital . Around one-in-six rural Americans ( 17 % ) live closest to a hospital run by the government . While this is about the same as the share in urban areas ( 14 % ) , it 's larger than the share in suburban areas ( 10 % ) Whether a hospital is nonprofit , for-profit or owned by the government can have implications for the types of services it provides , previous research has found .
Over the past two years , Americans have become more likely to say it is `` stressful and frustrating '' to have political conversations with those they disagree with . The change in opinions has come largely among Democrats : 57 % now say that talking about politics with people they disagree with is stressful and frustrating , up from 45 % two years ago .
The ages of 12 to 14 seem to be a major milestone in parents ' eyes for smartphones . This survey finds that a majority of parents ( 73 % ) believe it is acceptable for children to have their own phone only after they have reached at least the age of 12 . Some 45 % say smartphone ownership is acceptable between the ages of 12 and 14 , and 28 % say it is acceptable between the ages of 15 and 17 . Just 22 % think it is OK for a child under the age of 12 to have one . When asked about the appropriate age for a child to have their own tablet , parents are more accepting of children having one at a younger age . Fully 65 % of parents say it is acceptable for child to have their own tablet computer before the age of 12 .
The number of naturalized-citizen voters reached 10.8 million in 2016 , up from 9.3 million in 2012 . In a year when immigration played a central role in the presidential campaign , turnout among naturalized-citizen voters ( those who were immigrants born in another country who have naturalized to become U.S. citizens ) was 54.3 % , up from 53.6 % in 2012 . Overall , the voter turnout rate among foreign-born citizens trailed that of U.S.-born voters , who had a 62.1 % turnout rate in 2016 . But among Asians and Hispanics – the nation 's two largest immigrant groups – the pattern was reversed . In 2016 , turnout among Asian naturalized citizens was 51.9 % , compared with 44.9 % for U.S.-born Asians . Among Hispanics , naturalized-citizen turnout was 53.4 % , higher than the 45.5 % turnout for U.S.-born Hispanics . The voter turnout rate increased among Millennials and those in Generation X. Millennials ( those ages 20 to 35 in 2016 ) had a 50.8 % voter turnout rate in 2016 , up from 46.4 % in 2012 when they were ages 18 to 31 . Their turnout rate increased across racial and ethnic groups , with the exception of black Millennials , 50.6 % of whom turned out in 2016 , compared with 55.0 % in 2012 . This increase in the Millennial voter turnout rate is not only because the generation has grown older ( older voters vote at higher rates than younger voters ) , but also due to a higher turnout rate among its youngest members : 45.2 % of 20- to 24-year-olds voted in 2016 , up from 43.6 % in 2012 . Generation X ( those ages 36 to 51 in 2016 ) turnout was 62.6 % , up from 61.0 % in 2012 . By contrast , the voter turnout rate among older generations was flat . Turnout for Baby Boomers ( those ages 52 to 70 ) was 68.7 % in 2016 , compared with 68.9 % in 2012 , while among the Silent and Greatest generations ( those ages 71 and older ) , it was 70.1 % in 2016 , compared with 71.8 % in 2012 .
When it comes to how Maduro is handling various aspects of his job , Venezuelans offer harsh criticism . Maduro 's worst issue ratings are on inflation ( 86 % disapprove ) and crime ( 85 % ) . Reports indicate an increase in the country 's crime rates , which some attribute to the shortages of basic goods plaguing the country . Roughly eight-in-ten also give Maduro poor marks for his handling of corruption ( 83 % ) and unemployment ( 80 % ) . And 77 % disapprove of how he is dealing with political opposition .1
This report explores the new contours of friendship in the digital age . It covers the results of a national survey of teens ages 13 to 17 ; throughout the report , the word `` teens '' refers to those in that age bracket , unless otherwise specified . The survey was conducted online from Sept. 25 through Oct. 9 , 2014 , and Feb. 10 through March 16 , 2015 , and 16 online and in-person focus groups with teens were conducted in April 2014 and November 2014 . For American teens , making friends is n't just confined to the school yard , playing field or neighborhood – many are making new friends online . Fully 57 % of teens ages 13 to 17 have made a new friend online , with 29 % of teens indicating that they have made more than five new friends in online venues . Most of these friendships stay in the digital space ; only 20 % of all teens have met an online friend in person .
According to the survey of Hispanics , most U.S. Hispanics would prioritize , by 55 % to 35 % , relief from deportation over a pathway to citizenship for unauthorized immigrants . A similar survey of Asian-American adults fielded in October finds that U.S. Asians tilt in the same direction , though by a much narrower margin—49 % to 44 % .
In particular , conservative and moderate Democrats are expressing less satisfaction about the field of Democratic candidates than they have in the past . Currently , 45 % of conservative and moderate Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters view the Democratic candidates running for the nomination as either excellent or good . At this point in the campaign in 2007 , fully 62 % of conservative and moderate Democratic registered voters had positive assessments of the Democratic field .
Only among the Silent generation did presidents in office before Kennedy receive a significant number of mentions . But even among this older group , Clinton and Reagan were essentially tied for the top positions . Reagan was cited by 36 % and Clinton by 35 % as best or second-best . Kennedy was mentioned by 29 % , Dwight D. Eisenhower by 17 % , and Harry S Truman and Franklin D. Roosevelt were named by 11 % and 12 % , respectively . Read more
Despite double-digit percentage decreases in U.S. violent and property crime rates since 2008 , most voters say crime has gotten worse during that span , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The disconnect is nothing new , though : Americans ' perceptions of crime are often at odds with the data . Leading up to Election Day , a majority ( 57 % ) of those who had voted or planned to vote said crime has gotten worse in this country since 2008 . Almost eight-in-ten voters who supported President-elect Donald Trump ( 78 % ) said this , as did 37 % of backers of Democrat Hillary Clinton . Just 5 % of pro-Trump voters and a quarter of Clinton supporters said crime has gotten better since 2008 , according to the survey of 3,788 adults conducted Oct. 25-Nov. 8 .
In the new survey , the Hispanic voter groups most confident that Biden can handle the public health impact of the coronavirus outbreak include women ( 80 % ) and college graduates ( 79 % ) . By contrast , lower shares of Hispanic male voters ( 61 % ) and Hispanic voters with some college education or less ( 68 % ) say they are somewhat or very confident in Biden .
The Pew Hispanic survey also explored the reasons Hispanic immigrants who are legal permanent residents have n't yet tried to become citizens . According to the survey , when asked in an open-ended question why they had not naturalized thus far , 45 % identified either personal barriers ( 26 % ) , such as a lack of English proficiency , or administrative barriers ( 18 % ) , such as the financial cost of naturalization .
Blacks are far more likely to view revamping the criminal justice system as a key goal than are whites and Hispanics . Nearly three-quarters of blacks ( 73 % ) say this should be a top priority , compared with 48 % of Hispanics and just 39 % of whites .
Meanwhile , `` traditional '' roles for mothers and fathers are eroding . Comparing data from 1965 and 2011 shows that mothers these days are spending more hours per week at their jobs , and fathers are spending more time doing housework . Both mothers and fathers are spending more time on child care , though mothers still do more of this than fathers do .
In general , about two-thirds of the public say they are `` very sympathetic '' ( 23 % ) or `` somewhat sympathetic '' ( 42 % ) toward immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally . Another 15 % are somewhat unsympathetic and 17 % are very unsympathetic . That sentiment is similar to feelings in June 2013 , although the share saying `` very sympathetic '' has risen 7 points .
While Brazilians express confidence in Lula 's overall approach to world affairs , they largely disagree with him on how to handle Iran and its nuclear weapons program . The president has opposed additional international economic sanctions against the Islamic Republic . Yet , of the 85 % of Brazilians who oppose Iran acquiring nuclear weapons , nearly two-thirds approve of tighter sanctions to try to prevent it from developing such weapons ; 31 % oppose tougher economic sanctions against Iran .1 Majorities of those who oppose a nuclear-armed Tehran in 18 of the other 21 countries surveyed also endorse such a measure . In addition , most ( 54 % ) Brazilians who do not want to see a nuclear-armed Iran are willing to consider the use of military force to prevent Iran from developing nuclear weapons ; a third say avoiding a military conflict with Iran , even if it means it may develop these weapons , should be the priority .
Nearly two-thirds of the public says there are either very strong ( 27 % ) or strong conflicts 38 % ) between blacks and whites in America today . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say there are `` not very strong conflicts , '' and just 4 % say there are `` not conflicts . ''
Pressures related to economic well-being and insecurity may help to explain why , beyond a general willingness to migrate , substantial shares of sub-Saharan Africans say they actually plan to move to another country in the next five years . Among the six countries polled , the share with plans to migrate ranges from roughly four-in-ten or more in Senegal ( 44 % ) , Ghana ( 42 % ) and Nigeria ( 38 % ) to fewer than one-in-ten in Tanzania ( 8 % ) .
In a separate telephone survey also conducted in January , the share saying the main reason a person is rich is because they have more advantages than others has increased 13 percentage points since 2018 , while there has a been a comparable decline ( 12 points ) in the share attributing a person 's wealth more to hard work . These changes are evident among both Republicans and Democrats .
The number of Americans who do not identify with any religion also has grown in recent years ; indeed , about one-fifth of the public overall – and a third of adults under age 30 – are religiously unaffiliated as of 2012 . Fully a third of U.S. adults say they do not consider themselves a `` religious person . '' And two-thirds of Americans – affiliated and unaffiliated alike – say religion is losing its influence in Americans ' lives . A survey conducted March 21 – April 8 asked Americans whether having `` more people who are not religious '' is a good thing , a bad thing , or does n't matter for American society . Many more say it is bad than good ( 48 % versus 11 % ) . But about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say it does not make much difference . Even among adults who do not identify with any religion , only about a quarter ( 24 % ) say the trend is good , while nearly as many say it is bad ( 19 % ) ; a majority ( 55 % ) of the unaffiliated say it does not make much difference for society . Read more
Fathers have nearly tripled the amount of time they spend with their children , from 2.5 hours in 1965 to 7.3 hours per week in 2011 , according to a Pew Research report that analyzed years of time-use data . Despite that increase , 46 % of fathers said they spent too little time with their children , compared with 23 % of mothers who said the same ; half of dads said they spent the right amount of time .
Around seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 72 % ) say social media companies have too much power and influence in politics today , according to the June survey . Much smaller shares say these companies have about the right amount of ( 21 % ) or not enough ( 6 % ) political power and influence .
One factor driving dissatisfaction with the way democracy is working is frustration with political elites , who are often perceived as out of touch with average citizens . Across the EU nations polled , a median of 69 % disagree with the statement `` Most elected officials care about what people like me think . '' Majorities also share this perspective in Russia , Ukraine and the U.S .
Americans also are largely unaware of the size of the Jewish population in the U.S. , which Pew Research Center estimates at around 2 % . One-in-five U.S. adults ( 19 % ) correctly say that Jews make up less than 5 % of the adult population , while a quarter ( 25 % ) think they make up a bigger share and a clear majority ( 56 % ) say they are unsure . Among Jewish Americans , six-in-ten know that Jews make up less than 5 % of all U.S. adults .
Much of this survey focuses on possible future impacts of automation , but a minority of Americans are already being impacted by these technologies in their own jobs and careers . Specifically , 2 % of Americans report that they have ever personally lost a job because their employers replaced their positions with a machine or computer program . Another 5 % report that they have ever had their pay or hours reduced for the same reason . Taken together , that works out to 6 % of U.S. adults who report having been impacted by workforce automation in one ( or both ) of these ways . The youngest adults – those ages 18 to 24 – are among the groups most likely to have been personally impacted by workforce automation . This experience is also more common than average among Latinos , part-time workers and those with relatively low household incomes .
By comparison , Americans express the greatest sense of security using landline phones when sharing private information with another trusted entity . However , their level of confidence is still quite low ; just 16 % of adults say they feel `` very secure '' sharing private information via the landline phone , while 51 % say they feel `` somewhat secure . ''
About six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say that government regulations are necessary to encourage businesses and consumers to rely more on renewable energy sources . Fewer ( 39 % ) think the private marketplace will encourage the use of renewable energy , without the need for government intervention .
A survey earlier this month , before the IRS reports surfaced , found an unusual level of public agreement that the tax system needs sweeping changes . Overall , 72 % said the nation 's tax system either needs major changes ( 40 % ) or to be completely rebuilt ( 32 % ) . Just 26 % said the system works pretty well or needs minor changes . There 's a clear trend , too . The percentage saying the tax system needs at least major changes has risen 26 points since 2005 , while the percentage saying it works pretty well has fallen 24 points . Most striking is that the rise among those who think the system needs major fixing has occurred across nearly all partisan and demographic groups .
There is a significant ideological divide on this question among Democrats . Three-quarters of liberal Democrats and Democratic leaners say the pre-emptive use of military force can rarely or never be justified . By contrast , conservative and moderate Democrats and Democratic leaners are more evenly divided : 52 % say it can rarely or never be justified , while 46 % say it can sometimes or often be justified . There are modest differences on this question across many demographic groups , including age and gender . However , when it comes to levels of educational attainment , postgraduates express distinct views . Overall , 62 % of postgraduates say that using military force against countries that may seriously threaten but have not attacked the U.S. can rarely or never be justified ; fewer ( 37 % ) say it can sometimes or often be justified . By contrast , those with lower levels of education are more likely to say pre-emptive force can sometimes or often be justified : About half of those with a college degree or less education say this .
A majority of Americans get their science news from general outlets , though many question how often these outlets get the science facts right . More than half ( 54 % ) say they regularly get their science news from general news outlets , outpacing every other source type asked about , including a range of specialty science sources .
It 's worth noting , though , that almost four-in-ten Americans ( 38 % ) said they could n't name any gay or lesbian entertainers or public figures , including 61 % of people age 65 and older .
The survey , part of a larger study to be released later this year about issues related to race , ethnicity and identity , also asked whether it 's ever acceptable for someone to wear traditional dress from a country or culture other than their own as part of a Halloween costume . About six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say this is always or sometimes acceptable , while about a quarter ( 27 % ) say it 's rarely or never acceptable . Here , too , there are differences across racial and ethnic lines and between Democrats and Republicans .
When it comes to policy about scientific issues , a majority of U.S adults ( 55 % ) say that public opinion should not play an important role `` because these issues are too complex for the average person to understand , '' while 43 % think the public should help guide such decisions . The balance of opinion on this issue has shifted since 2019 , when a Center survey found the majority ( 54 % ) said public opinion should play an important role in science policy decisions .
The 50,420 asylum applications Canada received in 2017 were more than double the 23,930 it received in 2016 . Applications that meet basic eligibility requirements , such as having no serious criminal convictions , are referred to Canada 's Immigration and Refugee Board for further review ; the vast majority of applications in 2017 received this referral .
An overwhelming majority of Americans ( 81 % ) are aware of news reports that John McCain may have had an improper relationship with a female lobbyist several years ago . About half ( 48 % ) of the public has heard a lot about this story , which first appeared in the New York Times late last week . Another 33 % has heard at least a little about the story . By a nearly two-to-one margin those who have heard about the McCain story think the New York Times was wrong to publish it — 57 % say the Times did the wrong thing in publishing the story , 33 % say the paper did the right thing . Republicans are only slightly more likely than Democrats to have heard about the McCain story ( 87 % of Republicans have heard at least a little compared with 80 % of Democrats ) . However , partisan views on the role of the New York Times differ dramatically . By a 75 % to 16 % margin Republicans who are aware of the story say the Times did the wrong thing by publishing it . Democrats are evenly split on the issue — 47 % say the Times was wrong , 45 % say the paper was right . Independents have a more negative view of the Times ' decision ( 55 % wrong , 33 % right ) .
Looking ahead , the public has mixed views of how they think the national economy will perform over the next year . While slightly more say they expect conditions to be better a year from now ( 34 % ) than worse ( 25 % ) , 40 % expect conditions to be about the same .
In general , the public continues to say that good diplomacy , rather than military strength , is the best way to ensure peace . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say good diplomacy is the best way to ensure peace ; 30 % say the best way to ensure peace is through military strength . These views have changed only modestly since the question was first asked two decades ago . Younger people are far more likely than older Americans to view good diplomacy as the best path to peace . Majorities of those under 30 ( 75 % ) and 30 - 49 ( 62 % ) say this , compared with about half of those 50 - 64 ( 50 % ) and 65 and older ( 47 % ) .
This weeks ' massive release of 2012 Medicare billing and payment data stimulated a rush of creativity among data visualizers . But the sheer size of the data dump — covering $ 77 billion paid in 2012 to 880,000 doctors and other health care providers — posed challenges in deciding what to chart and how to display it , from high-level overviews to detailed interactive maps to graphics focusing on the biggest recipients of Medicare reimbursements .
Young women , those 18 - 24 , experience certain severe types of harassment at disproportionately high levels : 26 % of these young women have been stalked online , and 25 % were the target of online sexual harassment . In addition , they do not escape the heightened rates of physical threats and sustained harassment common to their male peers and young people in general .
The public generally expresses more worry than enthusiasm about emerging automation technologies – especially when it comes to jobs . U.S. adults are roughly twice as likely to express worry ( 72 % ) as enthusiasm ( 33 % ) about a future in which robots and computers are capable of doing many jobs that are currently done by humans . They are also around three times as likely to express worry ( 67 % ) as enthusiasm ( 22 % ) about algorithms that make hiring decisions without any human involvement . By comparison , Americans tend to hold more balanced views toward driverless vehicles and robot caregivers .
A Pew Global Attitudes Project survey conducted this spring found 43 % of British Muslims `` very concerned '' about the rise of Islamic extremism among Muslims living in that country . That 's twice the proportion that expressed similar fears in Spain ( 21 % ) and significantly more than in Germany ( 23 % ) or France ( 26 % ) .
However , the public does pay attention to certain high-profile Supreme Court cases . Many ( 45 % ) paid close attention to the 2012 Affordable Care Act ruling , last year 's same-sex marriage decisions ( 30 % ) and 2012 's ruling on Arizona 's strict immigration law ( 29 % ) .
For its part , the media devoted 16 % of coverage to the WikiLeaks story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Tallying together the economic themes , PEJ found them receiving more than a quarter of coverage : the economy in general ( 11 % ) , the debate over what to do about the Bush era income tax cuts ( 11 % ) and discussions in Washington about how to reduce the federal deficit ( 7 % ) .
However , the biggest gap between American self-perceptions and how others perceive us is with regard to religiosity . In much of western Europe , the U.S. as a country is considered too religious – our 2005 poll found that majorities in France and the Netherlands and pluralities in Britain and Germany see the U.S. this way . By contrast , a 58 % majority of Americans say their country is not religious enough . On this point , Muslims find themselves in rare agreement with the American public ; majorities in Indonesia , Pakistan , Lebanon , Turkey , and Jordan all believe the U.S. is not religious enough .
Ukrainians are unhappy with the general direction of their country as well as their economic situation and national leadership . Roughly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) Ukrainians are dissatisfied with the way things are going in their country . A roughly equal percentage ( 91 % ) describes the current economic situation in Ukraine as somewhat or very bad , with a majority ( 59 % ) saying very bad .
Many Japanese would appear unsettled by the perceived balance between emigration and immigration . Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 58 % ) say that people leaving their country for jobs in other nations is a problem . At the same time , an identical share believes that the government should keep immigration at its current level . Only 23 % think Japan should allow in more immigrants ; 13 % want fewer entrants from other nations .
While Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say partisan divisions are increasing , Democrats are more likely to be very concerned about partisan divides in the country . Sizable majorities in both parties ( 80 % of Republicans , 83 % of Democrats ) say they are very or somewhat concerned about divisions between Republicans and Democrats . While 40 % of Republicans are very concerned by this , a somewhat larger share of Democrats ( 48 % ) say the same .
Most are also critical of Italy 's response , while the public is divided over how well the United Kingdom has dealt with COVID-19 . Regarding their own country 's reaction , Americans are divided along partisan lines . Overall , 47 % of adults say the United States has done a good or excellent job of handling the outbreak , but just 27 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents hold that view , compared with 71 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents .
Those who took the quiz on our website were considerably more knowledgeable than those who responded to our national survey . Nearly one-third of quiz takers on our website ( 32 % ) aced the test – answering all 13 questions correctly – compared with just 8 % of adults nationally . And nearly one-fourth ( 24 % ) missed only one question , compared with 11 % among the general public . Overall , our website visitors correctly answered an average of 11.2 of the 13 questions , compared with an average of 8.5 correct among the national sample of adults .
As ownership of mobile phones , especially smartphones , spreads rapidly across the globe , there are still notable numbers of people in emerging economies who do not own a mobile phone , or who share one with others . A Pew Research Center survey in 11 emerging economies finds that a median of 6 % of adults do not use phones at all , and a median of 7 % do not own phones but instead borrow them from others . The mobile divides are most pronounced in Venezuela ( 32 % ) , India ( 30 % ) and the Philippines ( 27 % ) , countries where about three-in-ten adults do not own a mobile phone .
Across the countries studied – Denmark , France , Germany , Italy , the Netherlands , Spain , Sweden and the United Kingdom – a median of 70 % say they get news at least daily from TV . The platform 's reach is highest in Italy and Spain , where 81 % in each country say they get news daily from TV . Online news consumption is slightly less common : A regional median of 60 % get news this way at least daily . But in some countries , the share of people who get news online competes with – or even exceeds – the share who get it through TV .
Overall , women are more likely to name a family member ( including other family members , such as siblings ) as one of the three people they talk with most about politics ( 85 % , vs. 76 % of men ) . On the other hand , men are more likely to name non-family members ( 79 % , vs. 70 % of women ) , a difference that holds true across all age groups . For example , young men ages 18 - 29 are far more likely than their female counterparts to think of one of their friends as a main discussion partner ( 72 % vs. 58 % ) .
Scientists as a group are highly regarded , compared with other prominent groups and institutions in society . In all publics , majorities have at least some trust in scientists to do what is right . A median of 36 % have `` a lot '' of trust in scientists , the same share who say this about the military , and much higher than the shares who say this about business leaders , the national government and the news media .
Among Clinton supporters , only her experience , at 32 % , is mentioned as frequently as opposition to Trump . For Trump supporters , opposition to Clinton is among the most frequently cited factors for supporting their candidate , with nearly as many citing his status as a political outsider ( 27 % ) or his policy stances ( 26 % ) .
About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the economy more closely than any other story . Last week , news about the economy accounted for 8 % of coverage , according to PEJ .
Might 2016 be the year we break the fever ? So far it 's not looking that way . The public remains in a foul mood , frustrated by stagnant incomes , a shrinking middle class and gruesome global terrorism . Just 19 % say they trust the government to do what 's right . Moreover , most Republicans and many Democrats say they believe that , on the issues that matter most to them , the other side is winning . And not since the early 2000s has a majority of the public said the nation is on the right track , making these past dozen years the longest sustained stretch of national pessimism since the onset of polling .
Upper-income Americans were especially likely to have each of these financial holdings . About nine-in ten upper-income Americans had savings ( 89 % ) and retirement accounts ( 87 % ) , and 68 % had stocks or other personal investments . In fact , upper-income Americans were about five times as likely to own stocks as lower-income Americans ( 68 % vs. 14 % ) .
The Seventh-day Adventist Church , known for its observance of the Sabbath on Saturdays and some other unique beliefs and practices , traces its origins to the United States in the first half of the 19th century , when preacher William Miller built a religious movement around his prediction that Jesus Christ would return to Earth in 1844 . Since then , the church has transitioned from being seen as a cult by some Americans to a more mainstream evangelical Christian denomination . Seventh-day Adventists make up one-half of 1 % of the U.S. adult population ( 0.5 % ) , little changed from 2007 ( 0.4 % ) . That stability stands in contrast to U.S. Christians overall , whose share of the population has dropped by nearly 8 percentage points ( from 78.4 % to 70.6 % ) over that same period .
A clear challenge for the news media is the deeply rooted sense of bias the public perceives in their reporting . Even as three-quarters of the public gives credit to news organizations for holding our leaders accountable , about the same share ( 74 % ) feels the news media favor one side in their reporting . That far outpaces the portion of online news consumers who sense this about online news they get from friends and family : In that case , just about a third ( 35 % ) describe it as mostly one-sided , while 31 % say it represents more than one side . Another third say they do n't get news from friends and family .
Regarding refugees in particular , four-in-ten in the EU say their country 's policies should be more restrictive , but again this sentiment is particularly strong in Italy ( 57 % ) and Greece ( 56 % ) , according to the German Marshall Fund 's Transatlantic Trends survey in 2014 . Greeks and Italians are also the most likely to be concerned about immigration from outside the EU ( 84 % and 76 % , respectively , are concerned about this ) . European leaders are now trying to address the humanitarian crisis , but if sentiment captured in last year 's German Marshall survey still holds true , they face public opinion obstacles . Across 10 EU countries , six-in-ten Europeans ( 60 % ) disapprove of their government 's handling of immigration , including around three-quarters in Spain ( 77 % ) , Greece ( 75 % ) and the UK ( 73 % ) .
Take , for example , the question of whether the U.S. government should collect telecommunications data as part of its anti-terrorism efforts . Opposition to such practices is highest at both ends of the political spectrum : 69 % of Steadfast Conservatives , 61 % of Business Conservatives and 58 % of Solid Liberals say they disapprove of government data collection .
Around four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 43 % ) get news from Facebook , according to a survey conducted in July and August 2018 . The share of U.S. adults who get news through Facebook is much higher than the shares who get news through YouTube ( 21 % ) , Twitter ( 12 % ) , Instagram ( 8 % ) , LinkedIn ( 6 % ) and other platforms . Among U.S. adults who get news from Facebook , women are more likely than men to do this ( 61 % vs. 39 % ) , as are whites when compared with nonwhites ( 62 % vs. 37 % ) .
First , many people who use smartphones are unaware that the apps and browsers on their devices involve using the internet . In the Center 's survey of emerging economies , as many as 38 % of those who say they do not use the internet also indicate that they have a phone that connects to the internet . Due to differences in internet use across these countries , this group represents as much as 14 % of the total adult population in South Africa , or as little as 3 % in Venezuela .
Americans and Germans have vastly different opinions of their bilateral relationship , but they tend to agree on issues such as cooperation with other European allies and support for NATO , according to the results of parallel surveys conducted in the United States by Pew Research Center and in Germany by Körber-Stiftung in the fall of 2018 . Despite the differences of opinion on the overall relationship , Americans and Germans have remarkably similar views when it comes to attitudes toward Russia and China , as well as opinions about the economy .
And when it comes to economics , there is a clear winner in the U.S.-China rivalry . When asked to name the world 's top economy , the share of Indians naming the U.S. outstrips the share naming China by a staggering 38 percentage points ( 51 % vs. 13 % ) .
While a majority of Americans have watched at least one of the debates for the 2016 presidential election , there are striking differences between parties when it comes to which side 's debates people are watching . Democratic debate watchers have in large numbers tuned in to the opposing party 's debates , something far less common among Republicans , according to new data from Pew Research Center . Overall , Republicans are watching presidential debates at higher rates than both Democrats and independents ( 64 % , compared with 53 % of Democrats and 56 % of independents ) . But among those who do watch debates , seven-in-ten Democrats who have seen at least one watched a Republican debate , compared with about half ( 49 % ) of Republicans who watched a Democratic debate .
A sizable majority of U.S. adults use Facebook and most of its users get news on the site . But a new Pew Research Center survey finds that notable shares of Facebook users ages 18 and older lack a clear understanding of how the site 's news feed operates , feel ordinary users have little control over what appears there , and have not actively tried to influence the content the feed delivers to them . The findings from the survey – conducted May 29-June 11 – come amid a debate over the power of major online platforms , the algorithms that underpin those platforms and the nature of the content those algorithms surface to users . Facebook 's broad reach and impact mean that its news feed is one of the most prominent examples of a content algorithm in many Americans ' lives . When asked whether they understand why certain posts but not others are included in their news feed , around half of U.S. adults who use Facebook ( 53 % ) say they do not – with 20 % saying they do not understand the feed at all well . Older users are especially likely to say they do not understand the workings of the news feed : Just 38 % of Facebook users ages 50 and older say they have a good understanding of why certain posts are included in it , compared with 59 % of users ages 18 to 29 .
However , most Tea Party Republicans have not ruled out the possibility of supporting Romney . One-in-five ( 20 % ) likely Republican primary voters who agree with the Tea Party say Romney is their top choice for the GOP nomination . Another 40 % say if their preferred candidate were not in the race there is a chance they could vote for the former Massachusetts governor . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) likely Republican primary voters who agree with the Tea Party say there is no chance they would vote for Romney .
Republicans and Democrats also strongly disagree on the role of taxes in addressing the gap between the rich and the poor . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) favor a policy of low taxes on the wealthy and corporations to encourage investment and economic growth as a means of reducing inequality . The same number of Democrats ( 71 % ) back high taxes on the rich and companies to support programs that help the poor . A plurality of independents ( 48 % ) also favor high taxes .
It 's unclear how the country 's handling of the coronavirus may influence the election results . But a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2019 examined South Koreans ' attitudes toward their democracy more broadly .
U.S. adults ages 60 and older also are more likely than their counterparts around the world to live as a couple without young children at home . Almost half of Americans in this age group ( 46 % ) share a home with only one spouse or partner , compared with three-in-ten globally ( 31 % ) . Older adults in sub-Saharan Africa ( 9 % ) are especially unlikely to live in this arrangement .
The U.S. admitted 84,995 refugees in fiscal year 2016 , the most since 1999 . More than half resettled in one of just 10 states , with the largest numbers going to California and Texas . Nebraska , North Dakota and Idaho ranked near the top for the most refugees resettled per capita , with rates over two-and-a-half times the national average . And almost half ( 46 % ) of the fiscal 2016 refugees were Muslim , the highest number for any year since refugees ' self-reported religious affiliation became publicly available in 2002 .
From Figure 2 , we see that there is little difference among each of our categories between those active in religious or spiritual organizations and those not when a person has been in a locality from 1 to 19 years . However , those active in religious or spiritual organizations are more likely to have lived in a community for 20 years or more , while those who have lived in a community for less than a year are less likely to be active in religious or spiritual organizations .
A median of 34 % across the 13 countries surveyed believe the U.S. is the world 's leading economic power , while almost half ( 48 % ) say the same of China . South Korea and Japan – the two nations geographically closest to China among those surveyed – are the only countries where the U.S. is the most common choice for the leading economic power . In Australia , Canada and the European countries surveyed , China is the top choice .
Honolulu has by far the highest share of intermarried newlyweds of any metro area analyzed – 42 % of newlyweds living in and around that city were married to someone of a different race or ethnicity . The same is true of about three-in-ten newlyweds living near Las Vegas or Santa Barbara , California . ( All U.S. metro areas with at least 200 newlyweds in the Census Bureau data – 126 in all – are included in this analysis . Click here to see full tables that can be sorted by metro area and race and ethnicity . )
Young people have an especially negative view of the way politicians are tackling the issue of cyberbullying – 79 % of teens say elected officials are doing only a fair or poor job of addressing this problem . And smaller majorities have unfavorable views of how groups such as social media sites ( 66 % ) , other users who witness harassment happening online ( 64 % ) or teachers ( 58 % ) are addressing harassment and cyberbullying .
Across a range of measures , Republicans are far more negative than Democrats in their assessments of the news media . In a February survey , more than half of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents said news organizations do n't care about the people they report on ( 69 % ) , are not professional ( 60 % ) , are too critical of America ( 58 % ) , hurt democracy ( 56 % ) and do n't care about how good of a job they do ( 54 % ) . Democrats and Democratic leaners were far more positive than Republicans on all of these questions . The partisan divide in views of the news media extends to views of specific outlets , too , as a separate Center study found in January .
8 While many Americans get news from social media , few are heavily engaged with news . Only about a quarter ( 26 % ) of social media news consumers often click on links to news stories on social media . And only 16 % often `` like '' news stories . Even fewer say they often comment on ( 8 % ) , share ( 11 % ) or discuss ( 5 % ) news stories on social media .
Before the outbreak , Americans strongly believed their personal data was more vulnerable than in the past . In a June 2019 survey , 70 % of Americans said their personal information was less secure than it was five years earlier . Just 6 % of Americans said they felt their information was more secure than in the past , while 24 % said their personal information was about as secure as it was five years earlier . Experts have suggested that data security could be threatened for companies shifting to remote work – as well as ordinary people who are spending more time online – during the coronavirus outbreak .
English proficiency among recently arrived immigrants is on the rise . Among those who arrived in the U.S. in the past five years , 45 % said in 2017 that they either speak only English at home or speak English very well , up from 38 % in 2010 . Due to this increase , recent arrivals are closing the gap with longer-term immigrants , who have seen little change in their English proficiency . About half of immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for more than 10 years said in 2017 that they either speak only English at home or speak English very well , a share little changed from 2010 .
While these 30 Facebook pages with a self-described focus on a science-related area cover a range of topics , just 29 % of the Facebook posts from these pages had a focus or `` frame '' around information about new scientific discoveries . Some pages used a new-discovery frame in the bulk of their posts . For example , that was true of ScienceAlert , IFLScience , NASA Earth and New Scientist . But that framing was rare on other pages . Across the 30 pages , other frames were evident when researchers coded a representative sample of the posts . Fully 21 % of posts featured the practical applications of science information , relying on a `` news you can use '' frame . Another 16 % of posts were promotions or advertisements for media or events , 12 % of posts were aimed at explaining a science-related concept , and the remainder used some other frame .
Sweden is an example of this pattern . A large majority of Swedes ( 84 % ) say China 's importance has grown over the past 10 years . Far fewer ( 20 % ) say the same of the U.S. – and , in fact , around a third ( 34 % ) say U.S. power and influence has decreased during this time .
News about gas and oil prices and a series of deadly storms in the U.S. South topped the public 's news interest last week . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about the powerful storms and tornadoes most closely , while 24 % say their top story was rising fuel prices . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed news about the royal wedding most closely , while 8 % say they followed the White House release of Barack Obama 's Hawaiian birth certificate this closely .
Meanwhile , President Obama 's plan to delay the withdrawal of some 10,000 U.S. forces from Afghanistan , which he announced in March , draws bipartisan support . Overall , 58 % approve of Obama 's decision to keep the troops in Afghanistan through the end of this year , while 39 % disapprove . Majorities of Democrats ( 60 % ) , independents ( 59 % ) and Republicans ( 58 % ) approve of Obama 's decision .
About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) Americans saw a country that was more politically divided than in the past . Looking ahead , 36 % predicted the divisions would deepen in the next five years while 41 % said they would remain the same , and 17 % foresaw less division .
Eighty-five percent of Americans age 18 and older own a cell phone , making it by far the most popular device among adults . Mobile phones are especially popular with adults under the age of 66 , although the largest drop-off is for adults in the oldest generation ( those age 75 and older ) , of whom 48 % own a cell phone .
Among NATO member countries , positive views of the organization range from 82 % in Poland to 21 % in Turkey . Majorities of people in Poland , Lithuania , Netherlands , the United Kingdom , Italy and Germany rate NATO positively in Europe . Opinions are also relatively positive in the Czech Republic , Slovakia , France , Spain , Hungary and Bulgaria .
This year 's conference comes at a sensitive time for AIPAC , which has been at odds with the White House over a Senate bill that would impose new sanctions on Iran for its nuclear program . When we asked Americans in 2012 what the U.S. should do if Israel attacks Iran to stop Iran 's nuclear program , 64 % of white evangelicals said `` support Israel , '' while just 39 % of the general public agreed .
Nearly half of U.S. voters ( 46 % ) expect Trump 's election to lead to worse race relations , while just 25 % say they will improve ( 26 % say there will be no difference ) . By contrast , after Obama 's election eight years ago , 52 % of voters expected race relations to improve , while just 9 % said they would be worse ; roughly a third ( 36 % ) said there would be little change .
Explicitly anti-social behavior while in public is considerably less common . Some 23 % of cellphone owners say that when they are in public spaces they use their phone to avoid interacting with others who are nearby at least on occasion . Of course , those around the cellphone user may still experience various uses of cellphones as anti-social , even if that was not the intention of the user . Along with being more tolerant than their elders about cellphone use in public , younger adults also tend to use their phones for a wider range of purposes while out and about in public . For instance , 52 % of cellphone owners ages 18 to 29 say that they frequently use their phone to look up information about where they are going while out in public , compared with 9 % of cell users 65 and older who do this frequently . Similarly , 49 % of younger cell users say they frequently use their phone to coordinate getting together with others while they are out and about , compared with just 12 % of seniors .
As of 2019 , public support for legal abortion remains as high as it has been in two decades of polling . Currently , 61 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 38 % say it should be illegal in all or most cases .
The share of 18- to 24-year-olds who report having used online dating has nearly tripled in the last two years . Today 27 % of these young adults report that they have done so , up from just 10 % in early 2013 . Meanwhile , the share of 55- to 64-year-olds who use online dating has doubled over the same time period ( from 6 % in 2013 to 12 % in 2015 ) .
Enshrined in the Bill of Rights , free expression is a bedrock American principle , and Americans tend to express stronger support for free expression than many others around the world . A 38-nation Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2015 found that Americans were among the most supportive of free speech , freedom of the press and the right to use the internet without government censorship .
A majority of Americans ( 76 % ) say they see scientific developments as more important since the coronavirus outbreak . Just 4 % say they see such developments as less important , and another 19 % say the outbreak has made no difference in the level of importance .
Americans are divided on the extent to which the country 's laws should reflect Bible teachings . Roughly half of U.S. adults say the Bible should influence U.S. laws either a great deal ( 23 % ) or some ( 26 % ) , and more than a quarter ( 28 % ) say the Bible should prevail over the will of the people if the two are at odds , according to the February survey . Half of Americans , meanwhile , say the Bible should n't influence U.S. laws much ( 19 % ) or at all ( 31 % ) .
What does it take to be considered part of the middle class these days ? The vast majority of American adults agree that a secure job and the ability to save money for the future are essential . The public is more evenly split when it comes to owning a home and having the time and money to travel for vacation . But one thing is now less likely to be seen as a requirement : a college education . While the economic gap between college graduates and those with a high school education or less has never been greater , the share of adults saying a college education is necessary to be middle class has actually fallen since 2012 , from 37 % to 30 % , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Dec. 8 - 13 , 2015 .
Overall , the public holds more positive than negative views about the impact of Trump 's economic policies . While 44 % say that the president 's economic policies have made economic conditions better , 29 % say they have made the economy worse ; 26 % say Trump 's policies have not had much of an effect . However , optimism that conditions would improve was relatively high eight years ago . Today , public outlook for the economy a year from now is mixed : Currently , 29 % of Americans say conditions will be better , 26 % worse , while 45 % say they will be about the same as now . In February 2012 , 44 % expected economic conditions to improve ; just 10 % said they would get worse , while 42 % said they would be about the same as they were then .
One area where supporters of Trump 's candidacy have been more likely to reach out to voters is through the use of pre-recorded phone calls or robocalls . Fully 42 % of people who received pre-recorded phone calls say they solely received these calls on behalf of Trump , 24 % have solely received them in support of Clinton . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) voters who have received robocalls say they have heard from both Clinton and Trump supporters .
However , those who plan to vote Republican this fall have given more thought than Democratic voters to the midterm elections . Nearly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) Republican voters have given `` quite a lot '' of thought to the elections , compared with 44 % of Democratic voters .
Religion is more important to people in the former West than those in the former East . Six-in-ten adults in former West Germany say religion is very or somewhat important in their lives , whereas an identical share of those in former East Germany say religion is not too or not at all important . This includes 45 % of those in the former East who say religion is not at all important in their lives .
People can be politically active on social media in many ways . This survey asked Americans about four different types of activities that they may have engaged in on these platforms . Overall , about one-third of social media users ( 36 % ) say they have used sites like Facebook , Twitter and others in the past month to post a picture to show their support for a cause , look up information about rallies or protests happening in their area ( 35 % ) or encourage others to take action on issues they regard as important ( 32 % ) . A smaller share ( 18 % ) reports using a hashtag related to a political or social issue on social media during this time . But in certain activities , Black users stand out : 48 % of Black social media users say they have posted a picture on social media to show their support for a cause in the past month , compared with 37 % of Hispanic users and 33 % of white users . Black adults who use social media ( 45 % ) are also more likely than their Hispanic ( 33 % ) or white ( 30 % ) counterparts to say that in the past month they 've taken to social media to encourage others to take action on issues that are important to them . Social media engagement for causes or issues also varies by age . Just over half of social media users ages 18 to 29 ( 54 % ) say they have used these sites in the past month to look for information about rallies or protests happening in their area , compared with 36 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 26 % of those 50 to 64 and 20 % of those 65 and older . Social media users under the age of 30 are also more likely than those 30 and older to say they have used a hashtag related to a political or social issue and encouraged others to take action on issues that they see as important , while there are smaller age gaps when it comes to posting a picture to show support for a cause .
Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 61 % ) support increasing economic sanctions against North Korea to deal with Pyongyang 's nuclear program . Only 25 % back deepening ties with North Korea . Notably , however , 41 % of young Japanese support deepening ties , while only 21 % of their elders , those ages 50 and older , agree .
Views among Republicans and Republican leaners are more mixed : 52 % say they trust what Trump says more than previous presidents , compared with 33 % who trust what he says about the same as what previous presidents said and 14 % who say they trust what he says less . Conservative Republicans ( 62 % ) are much more likely than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 39 % ) to say they trust what Trump says more than previous presidents .
When asked about their confidence that different entities will use facial recognition tools responsibly , the public expresses much greater trust in law enforcement agencies than in advertisers or technology companies . A 56 % majority of U.S. adults trust law enforcement agencies at least somewhat to use facial recognition technologies responsibly , with 17 % indicating that they trust these agencies a great deal to use facial recognition . Several groups express relatively low levels of trust in law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition responsibly – most notably black adults , younger people and those who identify as Democrats . Roughly six-in-ten whites trust law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition tools , but that share falls to 43 % among blacks ( an 18 percentage point difference ) . Comparable gaps in trust exist between 18- to 29-year-olds and those ages 65 and older , as well as between Democrats ( including political independents who lean toward the Democratic Party ) and Republicans and Republican leaners . Prior surveys by the Center of broader public attitudes toward law enforcement have found that roughly eight-in-ten Americans have confidence that police officers will act in the best interests of the public , and that warm views toward the police are especially prevalent among whites , older adults and Republicans .
Looking more broadly at LGBT adults who are in committed relationships ( whether married or not ) , almost all gay men ( 98 % ) and lesbians ( 99 % ) are in relationships with same-sex partners . Only 9 % of bisexuals have same-sex partners ; fully 84 % are involved with someone of the opposite sex .
In the August survey , 36 % of all adults approve of the way Trump is handling his job as president , including 26 % who say they strongly approve . But among those who say white people do not benefit at all from advantages that black people do not have , 74 % approve of Trump , with 60 % approving strongly . Among those who say white people do not benefit too much from advantages that blacks do not have , a smaller majority ( 57 % ) approve of Trump 's job performance , including 39 % who strongly approve .
Relatively few Canadians engage frequently in traditional religious practices , such as daily prayer or weekly worship . We most recently asked Canadians about these behaviors in 2013 , when one-in-five reported attending religious services at least weekly , and 29 % said they pray daily . Around a third ( 36 % ) said they never pray , and about half said they seldom ( 24 % ) or never ( 25 % ) go to church or other worship services . Still , more than half of all Canadians ( 55 % ) in the Center 's 2018 survey said religion remains at least somewhat important in their lives , including about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) who said it is very important to them – higher than the share who said this in the UK , France and most other Western European countries . By all of these measures , young Canadian adults are less religious than their elders .
Republicans see benefits – as well as costs – from legalization . Our June survey found that a large majority of Republicans ( 70 % ) think it would be better for the U.S. economy if undocumented immigrants became legal workers . About as many ( 69 % ) said undocumented immigrants are `` hard workers who should have an opportunity to stay '' in the United States . '' And fully 76 % say it would be unrealistic to deport everyone in the country illegally . Yet substantial percentages of Republicans also see potential downsides from granting undocumented immigrants legal status : 77 % say it would encourage more people to come to the U.S. illegally and 68 % think it would reward illegal behavior . Most also say legalization would drain government services ( 68 % ) and cost U.S. jobs ( 66 % ) .
The surveys , which were completed before the multilateral agreement aimed at freezing Iran 's nuclear development program , find that most Americans do not believe that Iranian leaders are serious about addressing concerns over its nuclear program . Among those who heard at least a little about the nuclear talks , just 33 % say they think Iranian leaders are serious about addressing international concerns about the country 's nuclear enrichment program , while 60 % say they are not . Among the public , there are partisan differences over whether Iranian leaders are serious about addressing concerns over the country 's nuclear program . Majorities of Republicans ( 73 % ) and independents ( 62 % ) who have heard at least a little about the nuclear talks say Iranian leaders are not serious in addressing nuclear concerns . Democrats who have heard about this issue offer more mixed evaluations ; 42 % say Iranian leaders are serious and 48 % say they are not .
In some countries , migrants made up a much smaller share of national populations in 2015 . Countries like Turkey ( 4 % ) and Iran ( 3 % ) have low shares of their populations that are either internally displaced persons due to conflict or international migrants , even though millions of migrants live inside their borders . In 2015 , Syria ( 7.1 million ) and Iraq ( 4.7 million ) were home to the largest displaced migrant populations in the Middle East . Large numbers of displaced migrants were also living in Jordan ( 2.9 million ) , Yemen ( 2.8 million ) and Turkey ( 2.8 million ) in 2015 .
On a list of possible issues with China , Americans are most concerned about economic issues , cybersecurity and human rights . Specifically , the amount of U.S. debt held by China and the loss of jobs to China are Americans ' top worries , but cyberattacks and Beijing 's human rights record are n't far behind .
Views of why some people are rich and poor vary by gender , education and income level as well . For example , men ( 49 % ) are slightly more likely than women ( 41 % ) to say that hard work is more often the reason why someone is rich . Men ( 42 % ) also are more likely than women ( 26 % ) to say that a lack of effort is more to blame if someone is poor . Those with postgraduate degrees are more likely to say that having more advantages in life has more to do with why a person is rich ( 52 % ) than they are to say hard work has more to do with it ( 34 % ) . Those with less education are more divided on what has more to do with why a person is rich . When it comes to the reasons why a person is poor , majorities of postgraduates ( 62 % ) and college graduates ( 59 % ) say circumstances are generally to blame . Most of those with some college experience ( 54 % ) also take this view . Among those with no more than a high school diploma , about half ( 49 % ) point to circumstances as the reason why a person is poor , while 38 % cite a lack of effort .
Americans are also more likely than Germans to say it is sometimes necessary to use military force . About eight-in-ten Americans believe it is sometimes necessary to use force to maintain order in the world , yet only about half of Germans agree .
Among Democrats , however , there are differences across demographic traits , especially when it comes to education and age . About three-in-ten Democrats with at least a college degree ( 29 % ) feel misunderstood by the news media , compared with 42 % of those with some college education and 47 % of those with a high school diploma or less . Democrats ages 50 and older are also less likely to feel misunderstood than those under age 50 ( 35 % vs. 44 % ) .
Most oppose Trump policies that withdraw U.S. support for major trade and climate change agreements . Globally , a median of 72 % disapprove of Trump 's proposal to withdraw the U.S. from major international trade pacts . Majorities in Japan ( 66 % ) and Vietnam ( 61 % ) hold this view , as do 72 % in the Philippines and 80 % in South Korea . The survey was conducted after Trump signed an executive order withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement , of which Vietnam and Japan are signatories .
While officers and the public differ on a ban on assault-style weapons , the views of both groups are closely aligned on other gun-control measures . For example , more than nine-in-ten officers ( 95 % ) and close to the same share of the public ( 87 % ) favor laws that would prevent the mentally ill from purchasing guns . About the same proportions of the police and the public favor background checks for people who buy firearms at a gun show or from a private individual ( 88 % and 86 % , respectively ) . A majority of police and a larger share of the public also support the creation of a federal database to track gun sales ( 61 % and 71 % , respectively ) .
A sizable majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say Barack Obama ( 71 % ) is the best ( 51 % ) or second best ( 20 % ) president in their lifetimes . About half of Democrats name Clinton ( 49 % ) . Another 14 % of Democrats name Kennedy as one of their top two , 12 % name Reagan and 10 % mention George W. Bush . A majority of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say Reagan ( 57 % ) ranks in the top two presidents in their lifetimes . Another 40 % of Republicans name Trump , while 20 % name George W. Bush , 16 % name George H.W . Bush and 15 % mention Clinton .
Meanwhile , more than three-in-ten say water and air pollution are very big problems , and about seven-in-ten consider them at least a moderately big problem . Moreover , many Chinese are willing to make tradeoffs to address environmental challenges . Half of those polled believe China should reduce air pollution even if it means slower economic growth , while just 24 % think air pollution is the necessary price of a growing economy .
Immigrants in general , but especially the unauthorized are considerably more likely than natives to have very low levels of education . For example , less than 2 % of natives have less than a 9th grade education , but 15 % of legal immigrants and 32 % of unauthorized migrants have this little education . ( Note that education in Mexico is currently compulsory only through the 8th grade , so finding this many with this little education is not surprising . Further , the level of compulsory school attendance was recently raised from 6th grade . )
An analysis of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters at three points over a roughly five month period shows that by April , Trump was the preferred nominee of just 34 % of those who attend religious services weekly , including 15 % who had been steady supporters ( i.e. , had consistently supported him across the three separate surveys in December 2015 , March 2016 and April 2016 ) . Two-thirds of regular churchgoing Republicans were not supporting Trump for the GOP nomination even in April . This includes 57 % who were Trump `` skeptics , '' having not expressed support for Trump as the GOP nominee in any of the three surveys conducted mainly online among participants in the Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel between December and April .
As of July 12 , Trump has successfully appointed 43 judges , including one Supreme Court justice ( Neil Gorsuch ) , 22 appeals court judges and 20 district judges . Dozens of other court nominees are awaiting votes in the Senate , including two more appeals court judges who could be confirmed this week . While a few of Trump 's predecessors going back to Jimmy Carter had also appointed a Supreme Court justice by July 12 of their second year in office , none had appointed close to as many appeals court members – the powerful judges who sit just below the Supreme Court level . ( Kavanaugh is currently a federal appeals court judge , just as eight of the nine current Supreme Court members were before they became justices . ) Obama and Bush had each appointed nine appeals court judges at this point in their presidencies , while Bill Clinton had appointed 11 . George H.W . Bush and Ronald Reagan came closest to matching Trump 's total with 15 and 14 confirmed appeals court judges , respectively . Carter had appointed 10 .
Overall impressions of economic news continue to be mixed : 59 % say they have been hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , 28 % say they have been hearing mostly bad news while 10 % say they have been hearing mostly good news . For the most part , however , opinions about economic news remain mixed as they have for much of Obama 's presidency . But during his first months in office , perceptions were much more negative : in February 2009 , 60 % said news about the economy was mostly bad , 37 % said it was mixed and just 2 % said news about the economy was mostly good .
There are big ideological divides among Republican voters . Among the issues that divide possible Republican primary voters is government funding of Planned Parenthood , an issue that caused a bitter fight over a government funding bill among House Republicans . About seven-in-ten conservative Republicans ( 69 % ) say they are more likely to support a candidate who wants to cut off federal support , compared with 28 % of moderate and liberal party members . Other big divides between conservatives and moderates-liberals include whether to raise taxes on the wealthy , how much to compromise with Democrats , and whether to deport all unauthorized immigrants . ( In our sample , 69 % were conservatives and 31 % were moderates and liberals , reflecting relative shares of the party . )
At least eight-in-ten in Spain ( 87 % ) , Britain ( 85 % ) , the U.S. ( 85 % ) , France ( 80 % ) and Germany ( 80 % ) disagree that in tough economic times , men should have more right to a job than women . Majorities in Mexico ( 69 % ) , Brazil ( 63 % ) , Argentina ( 56 % ) , Kenya ( 53 % ) and Poland ( 51 % ) also reject this notion . In contrast , the view that men should have more of a right to a job than women during tough economic times is prevalent in nine of the countries surveyed . At least seven-in-ten in India ( 84 % ) , Pakistan ( 82 % ) , Nigeria ( 77 % ) , Egypt ( 75 % ) , Indonesia ( 74 % ) and China ( 73 % ) subscribe to this idea . About two-thirds in the predominantly Muslim countries of Jordan ( 68 % ) and Turkey ( 67 % ) as well as 60 % in South Korea also say that men are more entitled to a job than women when jobs are scarce .
While publics in emerging markets and developing countries are not that happy about their current economic condition , a median of 56 % nevertheless believe that when those who are children today in their countries grow up they will be better off financially than their parents . Just 38 % voice the view that they will be worse off . Indians ( 76 % ) , Nigerians ( 72 % ) and Chileans ( 69 % ) are particularly optimistic about economic prospects for the next generation . Publics in advanced economies are quite pessimistic about young people 's financial prospects , just 34 % believe they will be better off than the current generation . Such despair is particularly strong in Greece , Japan , France , Australia , Canada , Spain and the UK , where roughly seven-in-ten people say today 's children will be worse off .
Voters find the debates useful , but not determinative . Post-election surveys conducted by Pew Research Center since 1988 have found that , in most cases , three-fifths or more of voters say the debates were very or somewhat helpful in deciding which candidate to vote for . The high point was 1992 , when 70 % of voters said the three three-way debates that year between Bill Clinton , George H.W . Bush and Ross Perot were at least somewhat helpful .
Though only about one-in-ten right-leaning Swedes say that it is morally necessary to believe in God , the right-left gap persists even in Sweden : Just 2 % of those on the left say the same . Those on the right also are significantly more likely to say it is necessary to believe in God in order to be moral in Hungary , Spain , Canada , Argentina , Germany , Israel , Brazil , Australia , South Korea , the UK , the Netherlands and Sweden . When asked about the importance of religion in their lives , majorities in 23 out of 34 countries say religion is very or somewhat important to them . This includes nine-in-ten or more in Indonesia , Nigeria , Tunisia , the Philippines , Kenya , India , South Africa , Brazil and Lebanon . Majorities in several of these countries have particularly high levels of religious commitment , saying religion is very important their lives . Such attitudes are common in Indonesia ( 98 % ) , the Philippines ( 92 % ) , Tunisia ( 91 % ) , Brazil ( 84 % ) , India ( 77 % ) , Turkey ( 71 % ) , Lebanon ( 70 % ) and all African countries surveyed – 93 % in Nigeria , 92 % in Kenya and 86 % in South Africa .
While publics around the world are showing signs of apprehension about China 's growing economic power , its role in foreign affairs and the safety of the products it exports , the Chinese are confident that the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing will change the way their country is viewed . By nearly unanimous margins , Chinese respondents say their country will be a successful host and that the Olympic Games will help China 's image around the world .
More than two-in-ten Americans ( 23 % ) say they followed news about the events in Libya most closely , making this the public 's top story last week . Libya shared the top spot one week earlier with related news about the impact of Mid-East turmoil on domestic oil prices . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed news about Libya very closely , down slightly from one week earlier ( 38 % ) . Coverage of the situation in Libya accounted for 28 % of the newshole , according to PEJ . Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % ) say they followed news about the disputes in Wisconsin and other states between lawmakers and public employee unions most closely . The state budget conflicts accounted for 13 % of coverage . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed news about these stories very closely , down from 36 % the previous week .
Women who own guns are less likely than their male counterparts to say they go sport shooting or hunting , though substantial shares of women do so . About four-in-ten female gun owners ( 43 % ) say they go shooting or to a gun range often or sometimes ; 58 % of men who own guns say the same . And while 37 % of male gun owners say they go hunting at least sometimes , 28 % of women who own guns do so .
The 55.7 % VAP turnout in 2016 puts the U.S. behind most of its peers in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development , most of whose members are highly developed democratic states . Looking at the most recent nationwide election in each OECD nation , the U.S. places 30th out of 35 nations for which data is available . The highest turnout rates among OECD nations were in Turkey ( 89 % of voting-age population ) , Sweden ( 82.1 % ) , Australia ( 80.8 % ) , Belgium ( 77.9 % ) and South Korea ( 77.9 % ) . Switzerland consistently has the lowest turnout in the OECD : In 2019 federal elections , barely 36 % of the Swiss voting-age population voted . As a consequence , turnout comparisons based only on registered voters may not be very meaningful . For instance , U.S. turnout in 2016 was 86.8 % of registered voters , fifth-highest among OECD countries and second-highest among those without compulsory voting . But registered voters in the U.S. are much more of a self-selected group , already more likely to vote because they took the trouble to register themselves .
Just a month before Floyd 's death , a Pew Research Center survey found that 78 % of Americans overall – but a far smaller share of black Americans ( 56 % ) – said they had at least a fair amount of confidence in police officers to act in the best interests of the public . By contrast , large majorities of white ( 84 % ) and Hispanic ( 74 % ) adults expressed at least a fair amount of confidence . These views – and the wide racial and ethnic gap in opinions – had changed little over the prior few years .
In his new book , The Next America , Pew Research executive vice president of special projects Paul Taylor identifies two key trends that are already reshaping the United States and will continue doing so for decades to come . The first : far greater racial and ethnic diversity , driven largely by immigration . In 1960 , the U.S. population was 85 % white , 10 % black and 4 % Hispanic . By 2060 whites will be a minority ( 43 % ) , while 31 % of the population will be Hispanic , 13 % black , 8 % Asian and 6 % other races or ethnicities . As Taylor puts it , `` We were once a black and white country ; now we 're a rainbow . ''
But a closer look at the demographic patterns reveals some interesting insights about who is getting married . From 2011 to 2012 , the total number of newly married adults increased by 113,000 ( from 4.21 million to 4.32 million ) . Examining the newlyweds by education level , the number of newly married adults with at least a bachelor 's degree increased by 98,000 from 2011 to 2012 . Thus , almost the entire increase in new marriages ( 87 % ) from 2011 to 2012 is accounted for by the college-educated . The new marriage rate among college-educated adults increased from 55.3 newlyweds per thousand eligible adults in 2011 to 56.7 newly married in 2012 . In contrast , the new marriage rate among adults with some college education and adults with a high school diploma fell further from 2011 to 2012 .
In 21 of 24 nations , a majority of internet users also participate in sites like Facebook and Twitter ( see here for a country by country list of social networking sites ) .
Orthodox Christians have decreased as a share of the overall Christian population even as their numbers have more than doubled since 1910 , when there were 125 million of them . This decrease in share is due to the fact that the worldwide populations of Catholics , Protestants and other Christians have collectively almost quadrupled over the last century ( from 490 million in 1910 to 1.9 billion in 2010 ) . Roughly one-in-eight Christians ( 12 % ) are now Orthodox , down from one-in-five ( 20 % ) in 1910 .
The FBI collects data on `` active shooter incidents , '' which it defines as `` as one or more individuals actively engaged in killing or attempting to kill people in a populated area . '' Using the FBI 's definition , 85 people – excluding the shooters – died in such incidents in 2018 . The FBI found an increase in active shooter incidents between 2000 and 2013 . The average number of incidents rose from 6.4 a year in the first seven years of the study to an average of 16.4 a year in the second seven-year period . In subsequent studies , the FBI recorded 20 active shooter incidents per year in 2014 and 2015 , followed by 20 incidents in 2016 , 30 in 2017 and 27 in 2018 .
Voters who support Democratic candidates are similarly more likely to say they would be relieved ( 61 % ) than excited ( 35 % ) if their party gained control of the House . Somewhat more Democratic than Republican voters express excitement at the prospect of their party holding the House majority ( 35 % vs. 29 % ) .
The chart above summarizes the results for one of LAPOP 's coup-related questions from its most recent biennial AmericasBarometer survey , about whether high unemployment would justify a coup . The 2008 AmericasBarometer survey found that between 36.3 % ( Uruguay ) and 71.2 % ( Guyana ) said high levels of crime would justify a coup ; in the 2010 survey , the percentage of people saying high levels of corruption would justify a coup ranged from 20.8 % in Argentina to 58 % in Belize . ( The black dot on each bar represents the percentage of people in each country who say high unemployment would justify a coup . The grey band on either side of the dot represents the 95 % confidence interval , which means that in 95 out of every 100 samples of the same size and type , the result would fall somewhere within the grey band . )
Since taking office earlier this year , Chinese President Xi Jinping has emphasized the need to crackdown on corruption , promising to pursue both high-level and low-level officials ( `` tigers '' and `` flies '' ) . Among the country 's average citizens , corruption is a growing concern . Fully 84 % described political corruption as a big problem in a spring 2013 Pew Research Center survey of China . More than half ( 53 % ) said it was a very big problem , up from 39 % five years ago . Among the 17 issues included on the survey , only inflation ( 59 % very big problem ) was rated as a bigger concern .
Most Trump supporters prefer to vote in person in November , while most Biden supporters prefer to vote by mail , according to the July 27-Aug. 2 survey . Trump and Biden backers have nearly inverse preferences for voting in the fall . Six-in-ten Trump supporters prefer to vote in person on Election Day , while 17 % prefer to vote by mail . Biden supporters are far more likely to prefer to vote by mail than in person ( 58 % vs. 23 % ) . Around one-in-five in both groups – 20 % of Trump supporters and 17 % of Biden supporters – prefer to vote in person before Election Day . Voting preferences also differ notably by educational attainment . Voters with a high school diploma or less education are much more likely to prefer to vote in person on Election Day than through the mail ( 49 % vs. 29 % ) . The reverse is true among those with a bachelor 's degree ( 48 % vs. 31 % ) and those with a postgraduate degree ( 51 % vs. 29 % ) .
The LDS church typically places very high importance on families and traditional gender roles . Indeed , 81 % of Mormons say being a good parent is one of the most important things in life . And 73 % say the same about having a successful marriage . By comparison , half of all U.S. adults say being a good parent is one of the most important things in life , and only one-third say having a successful marriage is of utmost importance . Additionally , 58 % of Mormons say a marriage where the husband provides and the wife stays at home is preferable to one in which both spouses have jobs . Among the general public , most people ( 62 % ) express the opposite view , saying a marriage in which both spouses have jobs and take responsibility for housework and child rearing is more satisfying . At this fall 's pre-conference session specifically for Mormon women , participants were urged to defend the church 's teachings on marriage , family and sexuality .
The share of Americans with confidence in scientists to act in the public interest has increased since 2016 . Public confidence in scientists to act in the public interest tilts positive and has increased over the past few years . As of 2019 , 35 % of Americans report a great deal of confidence in scientists to act in the public interest , up from 21 % in 2016 .
Roughly four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners ( 38 % ) say they like the way Trump conducts himself as president , while 45 % say they `` have mixed feelings about '' his conduct and 16 % do not like it . Democrats continue to overwhelmingly say they do not like the way Trump conducts himself ( 85 % ) . Just 10 % say they have mixed feelings and 5 % say they like his behavior . These views are little changed since August .
The first presidential debate Monday night offers Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton an opportunity to explain their positions on important issues facing the country . Two months after the party conventions , only about half of voters ( 48 % ) say they know `` a lot '' about where Clinton stands on important issues , while even fewer ( 41 % ) say this about Trump . Republicans and independents who lean toward the Republican Party are roughly twice as likely as Democrats and Democratic leaners to say they know a lot about where Trump stands on important issues ( 58 % vs. 30 % ) . Nearly four-in-ten Democrats ( 39 % ) say they know little or nothing about where he stands .
Public views of artificial intelligence , described for survey respondents as computer systems designed to imitate human behaviors , are generally viewed positively by publics in the Asia-Pacific region . A median of two-thirds in the Asia-Pacific say that AI has been a good thing for society , while a median of 20 % say it has been a bad thing . Elsewhere public views are mixed . In Europe a median of 47 % say the development of AI has been good for society . Roughly half view AI positively in Brazil ( 53 % ) , Russia ( 52 % ) , the U.S. ( 47 % ) and Canada ( 46 % ) .
Nationwide , 30 % now say they have a very unfavorable opinion , up from 24 % in June and just 10 % in 2010 . Meanwhile , the share expressing a very favorable opinion stands at 9 % and is little changed over the past three years .
Political identity is a key element of many of our findings related to U.S. politics , and partisanship is the predominant divide seen in the public 's views on political issues . But not everyone in the U.S. identifies with one of the two main political parties . In fact , self-identified independents make up about 38 % of U.S. adults , counting independents who `` lean '' toward one party or the other . For a report on politically independent Americans , we wanted to visualize two things : how large a share of the population considers itself independent and how few within that group are `` true '' independents – that is , adults who do n't lean toward either party .
Among the opinion statements , roughly three-quarters of 18- to 49-year-olds ( 77 % ) correctly identified the following opinion statement , one that appeals more to the ideological right – `` Government is almost always wasteful and inefficient '' – compared with about two-thirds of older Americans ( 65 % ) . And younger Americans were slightly more likely than older adults ( 82 % vs. 78 % , respectively ) to correctly categorize this opinion statement , one appealing more to the left : `` Abortion should be legal in most cases . ''
While most measures of voter engagement remain fairly high in 2012 , overall interest and commitment to voting is down slightly when compared with the highly-charged 2008 election campaign . The share of registered voters who score high ( three out of four ) on a scale of four questions about interest in the campaign and intention to vote has slipped from 86 % to 80 % overall . This slippage is particularly steep among voters under 30 ; just 61 % are highly engaged in the 2012 campaign , down from 75 % at this point four years ago . By contrast , fully 86 % of voters 65 and older are highly engaged , which is unchanged from four years ago . Interest also is down among voters 30-to-49 ( eight points ) and those 50-to-64 ( six points ) , although both groups remain more engaged in the election than those under 30 .
The Republican nomination contest is being increasingly shaped by ideology and religion as it moves toward the Super Tuesday states on Feb. 5 . John McCain has moved out to a solid lead nationally , increasing his support among Republican and GOP-leaning voters from 22 % in late December to 29 % currently . Mike Huckabee , at 20 % , and Mitt Romney , with 17 % , trail McCain . Rudy Giuliani is a distant fourth , polling just 13 % . Giuliani 's support has declined seven points since late December .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness . Looking farther around the globe , however , one finds other countries that share Canada 's reservations with regard to American gentility . ( See chart below ) . In Turkey , an identical 53 % see Americans as rude . This view is shared by larger majorities in Indonesia ( 56 % ) and Jordan ( 64 % ) .
Democrats are more than twice as likely as Republicans to say gun laws in the U.S. should be stricter than they are today ( 80 % vs. 28 % ) . About half of Republicans say current laws are about right ( 52 % ) , while 20 % say they should be less strict .
The 2018 midterm elections are still more than a year away , but the two groups at either end of the political typology are already highly motivated by the battle for congressional control . More than eight-in-ten Solid Liberals ( 84 % ) say it matters a great deal to them which party wins control of Congress next year , the highest share of any typology group . Core Conservatives are next highest , at 77 % . At this point , other groups are less engaged by the struggle for partisan control of Congress . And the drop-off is particularly notable among three groups close to the middle of the typology . On the right , fewer than half of Market Skeptic Republicans ( 44 % ) and New Era Enterprisers ( 41 % ) say it matters a great deal which party wins control of Congress ; on the left , just 44 % of Devout and Diverse say the same .
From Figure 2 , we see that there is little difference among each of our categories between those active in religious or spiritual organizations and those not when a person has been in a locality from 1 to 19 years . However , those active in religious or spiritual organizations are more likely to have lived in a community for 20 years or more , while those who have lived in a community for less than a year are less likely to be active in religious or spiritual organizations .
Around one-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 ( 9 % ) say they moved due to the coronavirus outbreak , higher than the share in any other age group . Young adults are among the groups most affected by pandemic-related job losses and by the shutdown of college housing in early spring .
The increased prevalence of living with mom and/or dad is more prominent among less-educated young adults . In 2016 , only 10 % of Millennials who had completed at least a bachelor 's degree lived at home , compared with 7 % of college-educated Gen Xers who lived at home in 2000 . By contrast , 20 % of young adults with no more than a high school diploma lived in their parents ' home in 2016 , up from 12 % of Gen Xers in 2000 .
Americans have more confidence in the leaders of France , Japan and Germany to do the right thing regarding world affairs than they have in U.S. President Donald Trump , according to a Pew Research Center poll conducted earlier this year . Majorities in the U.S. view French President Emmanuel Macron , Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and German Chancellor Angela Merkel with confidence , while about half ( 48 % ) are confident that Trump will do the right thing internationally . Of the seven leaders tested in the survey , Americans have the lowest levels of confidence in Russian President Vladimir Putin , with about one-in-five ( 21 % ) saying he will do the right thing in world affairs . Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi receive equivalent ratings : About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) in the U.S. have confidence in each .
Americans tend to prioritize individual liberty , while Europeans tend to value the role of the state to ensure no one in society is in need . Nearly six-in-ten in the U.S. ( 58 % ) believe allowing everyone to pursue their life 's goals without interference from the state is more important . Majorities in all European nations polled in 2011 said guaranteeing that nobody is in need is more important .
Today 's young adults ( Millennials ages 21 to 36 in 2017 ) are much better educated than the Silent Generation . The educational trajectory of young women across the generations has been especially steep . Among Silent Generation women , only 9 % had completed at least four years of college when they were young . By comparison , Millennial women are four times ( 36 % ) as likely as their Silent predecessors were to have at least a bachelor 's degree at the same age . Educational gains are not limited to women , as Millennial men are also better educated than earlier generations of young men . Three-in-ten Millennial men ( 29 % ) have at least a bachelor 's degree , compared with 15 % of their young Silent counterparts . These higher levels of educational attainment at ages 21 to 36 suggest that Millennials – especially Millennial women – are on track to be our most educated generation by the time they complete their educational journeys .
Overall , Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders was mentioned more frequently than any other candidate in May , June and September of 2015 . Sanders was mentioned in about 165,000 comments , more than the number of mentions for the next two highest candidates combined : former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton , with about 85,000 , and Donald Trump , with about 73,000 . The main Sanders discussion forum , or subreddit , /r/SandersForPresident , offered not only discussion but opportunities to volunteer and raise funds for the candidate .
A new Indiana religious freedom law has sparked national debate since Gov . Mike Pence signed it last week . While its supporters say it strengthens protection of religious liberty , critics have argued that it could provide legal cover for businesses to discriminate , such as a florist or caterer who may not want to provide services for a same-sex wedding because of religious objections . A Pew Research Center survey last year found a U.S. public divided over these types of issues . The survey asked Americans whether businesses that provide wedding services should be allowed to refuse service to same-sex couples on religious grounds , or whether they should be required to provide services . Roughly equal shares of U.S. adults answered the question each way , with 49 % saying businesses should be required to serve same-sex weddings , and 47 % saying businesses should be permitted to refuse service due to religious objections .
People in emerging markets are even more dubious of trade 's impact on prices – a median of just 18 % in these countries say it drives prices lower . But publics across the nine emerging markets surveyed are enthusiastic about trade 's other economic benefits : A median of 56 % think trade leads to more jobs and 47 % say it improves wages .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
Those paying the most attention to news about the Zika virus are more likely than others to view it as a threat . For instance , 74 % of those who have heard a lot about Zika consider it a major threat to pregnant women or those trying to get pregnant , compared with 49 % of those who have heard only a little or nothing about Zika who feel that way .
There are wide racial and educational differences in opinions about how the Senate should deal with the vacancy created by Scalia 's death . Fully 82 % of African Americans say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on Obama 's nominee for the high court . Just half ( 50 % ) of whites agree , while 44 % say the Senate should not hold hearings until the next president selects a court nominee . By more than four to one ( 77 % to 18 % ) , those with postgraduate degrees say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on Obama 's nominee , rather than delaying action until the next president fills the court vacancy . Majorities of those with college degrees ( 60 % ) and some college experience ( 55 % ) also favor the Senate acting on Obama 's choice for the high court .
In both countries , confidence in Trump and feelings toward the U.S. are related to the sentiment of words chosen . Those with no confidence in Trump are at least twice as likely as those who express confidence in him to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 60 % vs. 22 % in Canada , 33 % vs. 15 % in Mexico ) . The same goes for views of the U.S. : Those with an unfavorable view of the U.S. are at least twice as those with a favorable view to use a negative word to describe the U.S. ( 70 % vs. 30 % in Canada , 44 % vs. 13 % in Mexico ) .
Three-quarters of U.S. adults say technology companies have a responsibility to prevent the misuse of their platforms to influence the 2020 presidential election , but only around a quarter say they are very or somewhat confident in these firms to do so , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 . The survey comes as Facebook and other major tech companies make efforts to limit political misinformation ahead of the November election . In the more recent survey , 73 % of adults say they are not too confident or not at all confident in technology companies like Facebook , Twitter and Google to prevent the misuse of their platforms to influence the 2020 presidential election . About a quarter ( 27 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident .
Americans last week followed the dramatic emergency landing of US Airways flight 1549 in New York 's Hudson River as closely as they followed news about the nation 's number one problem : the troubled economy . One-in-four say the crash – which resulted in no fatalities and turned pilot Chesley Sullenberger into a national hero – was the story they followed most closely last week , while 23 % say they followed economic developments most closely . The crash and quick rescue of all passengers and crew from the river 's freezing water captured the very close attention of 44 % of the public , according to the latest Pew Research Center weekly News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 16 - 19 . That compares with 43 % who say they followed economic news very closely last week .
Pluralities across age groups say the growing variety of family living arrangements does n't make a difference . But adults ages 65 and older are less likely than those in younger age groups to see it as a good thing . One-in-five adults 65 and older say this is a good thing , compared with 29 % of those ages 50 to 64 , 33 % of those 30 to 49 and 34 % of those 18 to 29 .
Three-in-ten of those who say they met their partner online report that their partner is a different race or ethnicity , compared with 19 % of those who met their partner offline . People who met their partner online are also somewhat more likely to say that they and their partner do not identify with the same political party ( 46 % vs. 40 % ) . Of those who say their partner has a different political affiliation , many are in a couple where one person leans to or is affiliated with one party and the other is a political independent or undecided . Meanwhile , there are no significant differences in educational attainment or income between couples who met online and offline . But after controlling for age , these differences disappear . Looking only at Americans younger than 40 , similar shares of those who met their partner online ( 49 % ) and offline ( 48 % ) say their partner identifies with a different political party . Similar shares ( 31 % and 27 % , respectively ) say their partner is of a different race or ethnicity . The shares saying they have a different income or education level from their partner are also not significantly different between those who met online and offline .
However , both Israeli Arabs and Arabs living in the Palestinian territories share a common skepticism about current efforts to achieve a peace settlement . Most Israeli Arabs ( 72 % ) and Arabs living in the Palestinian territories ( 84 % ) say the Israeli government is not making a sincere effort to bring peace to the region .
Yet the new analysis shows that Hispanic population dispersion , while continuing , has also slowed since 2007 . For example , the share of U.S. counties with at least 1,000 Hispanics rose more rapidly before the onset of the Great Recession than after : Between 2000 and 2007 , there was an 8-percentage-point gain in the share of U.S. counties with at least 1,000 Hispanics , rising to 46 % from 38 % in 2000 . Yet while half of U.S. counties met this criterion in 2014 , the share that did so was up only 4 percentage points since 2007 , when 46 % of all counties did . Other measures of dispersion show a similar slowing trend ( see Chapter 1 for more details ) .
Substantial shares across Europe believe the financial situation of average people in their country is worse today compared with 20 years ago . Two notable exceptions are Poland and Sweden , where about two-thirds believe people are generally better off financially .
Around six-in-ten or more in every age group are critical of China 's performance . But older Americans – who tend to have less favorable attitudes toward China – give it the lowest marks ; 69 % of those ages 65 and older say the country has done a fair or poor job , compared with 59 % of those under 30 .
Western leaders are remarkably unpopular in Turkey . Only 3 % of Turks say they have a lot or some confidence in President George W. Bush to do the right thing in world affairs . While Bush is the most unpopular Western leader included on the survey , France 's Jacque Chirac ( 5 % a lot or some confidence ) , Britain 's Tony Blair ( 7 % ) , and Germany 's Angela Merkel ( 11 % ) are not far behind .
A host of major news stories have been competing for Americans ' attention in recent weeks . But the public is more likely to have heard `` a lot '' about ongoing confrontations between police and protesters than several other stories , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Aug. 31 to Sept. 7 . Two other news stories asked about in the survey made less of an impression on the public . Three-in-ten Americans say they have heard or read a lot about the debate over whether professional and college sports should be played in the current environment , and only around two-in-ten ( 22 % ) say the same about discussions of the extent of child abuse and trafficking in the United States .
Adults who live in rural communities have historically been the least likely to use social media . In 2005 , 5 % of rural residents , 7 % of suburban residents and 9 % of urban residents reported social media usage . Today , 58 % of rural residents , 68 % of suburban residents and 64 % of urban residents use social media .
Trust in other people is relatively high in 14 advanced economies surveyed by Pew Research Center this past summer . But while a median of 62 % of adults across these countries generally believe most people can be trusted , there are significant differences in these views by age , education and other factors , according to a new analysis of findings from the survey . Overall , personal trust is highest in Denmark , where 86 % say most people can generally be trusted . Majorities in 10 other countries agree , including about seven-in-ten or more in the Netherlands , Canada , Sweden , Australia and the UK . People are more divided in Spain and France , where 53 % and 50 % , respectively , say most other people can be trusted . The only country where fewer than half of respondents say most people are trustworthy is Italy , where 43 % hold that opinion .
While a majority of Americans say feminism has had a positive impact on the lives of white , Black and Hispanic women , more say feminism has helped White women a lot . About three-in-ten U.S. adults say feminism has helped the lives of white women ( 32 % ) , About three-in-ten U.S. adults say feminism has helped the lives a white women a lot , compared with 21 % and 15 % who say this about Black women and Hispanic women , respectively .
The Pew Research Center survey asked Americans whether they think solar geoengineering would make a difference in reducing the effects of climate change and what effects they believe these techniques will have on the environment overall . In contrast to public views on other specific policy proposals , opinion is closely divided – 45 % to 52 % – over whether solar geoengineering would make a difference in reducing the effects of climate change . Opinion on this issue is closely aligned with political affiliation . About two-thirds of liberal Democrats ( 64 % ) say these techniques would make a difference , while a large majority of conservative Republicans ( 78 % ) think they would not .
Across five specific areas , majorities of voters gave negative marks to a possible Trump presidency : 61 % said that if Trump were elected , he would definitely or probably not set a high moral standard for the presidency ; 57 % said he would not improve U.S. global standing ; 55 % said he would not improve the way government works and the same percentage said he would not run an open and transparent administration . About half ( 52 % ) said he would use his office to improperly enrich himself or friends and family . Clinton also was viewed quite negatively ; in fact , nearly two-thirds of voters ( 65 % ) said she was unlikely to run an open and transparent administration ( 55 % said this about Trump ) . Clinton also was viewed as less likely than Trump to improve the way government works . However , more voters thought Clinton ( 48 % ) than Trump ( 42 % ) would improve U.S. standing around the world .
By contrast , Democrats continue to see the Democratic Party as mostly united in its views on issues and vision for the future : 56 % say this , compared with 39 % who say the party is mostly divided . These views are unchanged from April .
People with children under 18 in their homes also were more likely to say they were following flu news most closely . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) of those people say they followed flu developments more closely than any other story , compared with 30 % of those without children under 18 in their homes . Meanwhile , one third ( 33 % ) say they followed news about the latest unemployment report very closely , while 8 % say that was the story they followed most closely . The unemployment report took up 3 % of the newshole , according to PEJ .
Most age groups are living in larger households this decade . The change is most apparent for adults ages 35 and older . For example , in 2017 , 67 % of 35- to 54-year-olds lived in a household with three or more people , an increase from 64 % in 2010 . A similar increase in households of three or more is apparent among 55- to 64-year-olds .
By and large , European Muslims – irrespective of their views about the riots per se – say they are sympathetic to the youths from immigrant and working class suburbs in France who felt frustrated by their place in French society . Muslims in Great Britain are most sympathetic ( 75 % so indicate ) followed by those in France and Spain ( 63 % of Muslims in both countries ) .
As the U.S. Supreme Court weighs the future of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program ( or DACA ) , 74 % of Americans favor a law that would provide permanent legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children , while 24 % are opposed . As with other immigration issues , some of the sharpest differences in these views are between Democrats and Republicans . While 91 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents favor granting legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children , about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 54 % ) say the same . Support also varies by race and ethnicity . About nine-in-ten Hispanics ( 88 % ) say they favor granting legal status to immigrants who came to the U.S. illegally as children , with similar shares of U.S.-born and immigrant Hispanics saying so . Smaller majorities of black ( 82 % ) , Asian American ( 72 % ) and white ( 69 % ) adults say the same .
A sizable majority of Americans ( 68 % ) continue to say their greater concern is that state governments will lift coronavirus-related restrictions on public activity too quickly . Fewer than half as many ( 31 % ) say their greater concern is that states will not lift restrictions quickly enough , according to a new Pew Research Center survey that comes as some states begin to ease the restrictions they put in place to combat the spread of COVID-19 .
Meanwhile , the survey finds that 28 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters say it is a bad thing that some very wealthy Democratic candidates are personally financing their presidential campaigns . But these views vary widely among supporters of different Democratic candidates , with supporters of Michael Bloomberg more positive than other Democrats about very wealthy candidates funding their own campaigns .
In addition to teasing out these differences between Twitter users and the population as a whole , this analysis also highlights the sizable diversity among Twitter users themselves . The median user tweets just twice each month , but a small cohort of extremely active Twitter users posts with much greater regularity . As a result , much of the content posted by Americans on Twitter reflects a small number of authors . The 10 % of users who are most active in terms of tweeting are responsible for 80 % of all tweets created by U.S. users .
Fewer Egyptians now say that democracy is preferable to any other form of government than in surveys following the Arab Spring , and for the first time , more say that stability is a priority over democracy . While 45 % of the population says that honest elections with the choice of at least two political parties are very important for Egypt 's future , that number is down 11 percentage points from 2013 .
At the national level , there was almost no difference in these views between Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and Democrats and Democratic leaners . About half of Republicans and Democrats ( 51 % of each ) said it was better to avoid talking about political differences , while nearly as many said it was better to address differences to try to find common ground .
By a wide margin ( 58 % to 36 % ) , Americans approve of the U.S. missile strikes against Syria in response to reports of the use of chemical weapons by Bashar al-Assad 's government . By a comparable margin ( 61 % to 32 % ) , the public says that Donald Trump does not have a clear plan for dealing with the situation in Syria .
Overall , 33 % say there are plenty of jobs available where they live , compared with 58 % who say that jobs are difficult to find . The percentage saying that jobs are readily available is up six points since April and has steadily increased since reaching 10 % in the spring of 2010 . Half the sample was asked about the availability of jobs generally , and the other half was about the availability of `` good jobs . '' About a quarter ( 26 % ) say there are plenty of good jobs available where they live ; 71 % say good jobs are hard to find in their area .
Germans see France as their country 's top foreign policy partner , while Americans name the United Kingdom . Germans and Americans do not view the other country as their own nation 's principal foreign policy partner . More than four-in-ten Germans ( 44 % ) name France as the most important foreign policy partner for their country ; 10 % of Germans name the U.S . Meanwhile , roughly a quarter of Americans ( 26 % ) cite the UK as their country 's most important partner , while Germany is a distant fourth , cited by 6 % of U.S. adults , similar to the share ( 4 % ) expressed in 2019 . Last year , around two-in-ten Germans ( 19 % ) saw the U.S. as their country 's top partner .
The analysis of national standardized testing scores shows that about 51 % of 8th grade ELL students are behind whites in reading and math , meaning that the scores for one out of every two will have to improve for the group to achieve parity . In the 4th grade , 35 % of ELL students are behind in math and 47 % are behind in reading when compared with their white counterparts . The report also compares scores for ELL students to those of black and Hispanics students and finds smaller but still substantial gaps .
Both Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 94 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 92 % ) overwhelmingly see strong conflicts between the two parties , and seven-in-ten or more in both parties say they are very strong ( 75 % of Republicans and 71 % of Democrats ) . Liberal Democrats are more likely to say the conflicts are very strong than moderate and conservative Democrats ( 75 % vs. 66 % ) . Similarly , conservative Republicans more often say this than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 80 % vs. 65 % ) . Americans are now substantially more likely to see very strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans than they were in the past . When the Center first asked the question in December 2012 , 47 % of Americans characterized partisan conflicts as very strong . Four years later , in December 2016 , 56 % said this , and 71 % see these conflicts as very strong today .
The share of Catholics in Latin America and among U.S. Hispanics is declining , according to two major Pew Research surveys , including a new poll on religion in 18 Latin American countries and Puerto Rico . But the two surveys also show that while Latin Americans leaving the Catholic Church largely have migrated to evangelical or Protestant churches , many of their Hispanic counterparts in the U.S. are abandoning religion altogether .
At the time the survey was taken in late March and early April , only minorities of the public in Spain ( 45 % for Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy ) , Greece ( 32 % for Prime Minister Lucas Papademos ) , Poland ( 25 % for Prime Minister Donald Tusk ) and the Czech Republic ( 25 % for Prime Minister Petr Necas ) thought their country 's leader was doing a good job handling the European economic crisis . About half of the British ( 51 % ) gave Prime Minister David Cameron good marks on this issue , while 48 % of Italians said the same about Prime Minister Mario Monti . But weeks before he lost his bid for reelection , French President Nicolas Sarkozy still enjoyed the confidence of 56 % of the French public for his management of the crisis .
There were wide gaps across the two major parties : 55 % of Democratic members and 34 % of Republican members made posts about the topic . In both parties , the shares of women who discussed sexual misconduct on Facebook were 30 percentage points larger than the shares of men who did so .
Two-thirds of registered voters say they are either somewhat ( 52 % ) or very ( 14 % ) satisfied with their choice of candidates for Congress in their district this November ; 31 % say they are not too ( 24 % ) or not at all ( 7 % ) satisfied with their choices . Younger voters – who express some of the lowest levels of candidate knowledge – also are among those least satisfied with their choices this fall . Overall , 54 % of voters ages 18 to 29 say they are at least somewhat satisfied with their choices , compared with 42 % who say they are not too or not at all satisfied . Among all older age groups , larger majorities express satisfaction with the candidates , including 74 % of voters ages 65 and older .
An important milestone for many gay men and lesbians is telling their parents about their sexual orientation , our 2013 survey showed . Overall , gay adults are more likely to have shared this information with their mothers ( 70 % in the case of gay men , 67 % in the case of lesbians ) than with their fathers ( 53 % gay men , 45 % lesbians ) . The majority of gay adults who did end up telling their parents said it was hard to do . Among those who told their mothers , 64 % of gay men and 65 % of lesbians said it was difficult ; and among those who told their fathers , 74 % of gay men and 63 % of lesbians said it was difficult .
Historically , there have been modest differences between generational groups in trust in government and that remains the case today . Currently , 19 % of Millennials ( now ages 23 - 38 ) report trusting the government , similar to the shares of older generations who say the same . Trust in government remains at or near historically low levels across generational lines .
Even before the current campaign began , the American public had grown more ideologically polarized along partisan lines , as Pew Research Center documented in a major study . As of 2015 , 53 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents had political values that were mostly or consistently conservative , up from 31 % in 2004 . While Republicans have shifted to the right , Democrats have shifted to the left : In 2015 , 60 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents had values that were mostly or consistently liberal , compared with 49 % in 2004 and just 30 % in 1994 . In addition to ideological polarization , partisan animosity also increased substantially during this period .
The British have long thought that the EU was inefficient and intrusive and has mishandled the challenges facing Europe . In a 2014 Pew Research Center survey , 64 % of the British thought the EU was inefficient and does not understand the needs of its citizens . Six-in-ten said it was intrusive . In this year 's survey , 70 % in the UK disapprove of the EU 's handling of the refugee issue and 55 % said the same about the EU 's dealing with economic issues .
In today 's world , people — particularly young people — are continually finding and adapting new ways of communicating electronically to fit their needs . Case in point : 2015 marks the first time Pew Research Center has asked specifically about mobile messaging apps as a separate kind of mobile activity apart from cell phone texting . And already , according to a new survey , 36 % of smartphone owners report using messaging apps such as WhatsApp , Kik or iMessage , and 17 % use apps that automatically delete sent messages such as Snapchat or Wickr .
This anger plays a large role in the high level of enthusiasm among Democratic voters . Fully 71 % of Democratic voters who describe themselves as `` angry '' at government say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year , compared with 45 % of those who are `` frustrated '' or `` basically content '' with government . Similarly , Democrats who register strong disapproval of the president are far more likely to be eager to vote than those with less strong views ( 58 % vs. 29 % enthusiastic ) . And 56 % of Democrats who say their congressional vote is a vote against the president express high enthusiasm about 2006 , compared with just 44 % who say Bush is not a factor in their vote .
Varying views of obligations of good citizenship . Large majorities say it is very important to vote , pay taxes and always follow the law in order to be a good citizen . Half of Americans say it is very important to know the Pledge of Allegiance , while 45 % say it is very important to protest government actions a person believes is wrong . Just 36 % say displaying the American flag is very important to being a good citizen .
Today , most voters in the Western U.S. ( 70 % ) vote before Election Day . By comparison , almost nine-in-ten voters in the Northeast ( 88 % ) say they voted on Election Day . In the South , voters are evenly split between voting early or on Election Day , while a majority in the Midwest ( 68 % ) voted on Election Day . Most Americans still vote in person , but in the West that is no longer the norm . About seven-in-ten Western voters ( 69 % ) cast their ballots by mail , compared with fewer than two-in-ten in the other regions . ( The West contains three states that conduct their elections entirely by mail : Colorado , Oregon and Washington . )
Newsroom employment in the U.S. dropped by 23 % between 2008 and 2019 . In 2008 , there were about 114,000 newsroom employees – reporters , editors , photographers and videographers – in five industries that produce news : newspaper , radio , broadcast television , cable and `` other information services '' ( the best match for digital-native news publishers ) . By 2019 , that number had declined to about 88,000 , a loss of about 27,000 jobs , according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics . The bulk of the decline in total newsroom employment occurred in the first half of this period . Between 2008 and 2014 , the number of newsroom employees dropped to 90,000 , a loss of about 24,000 jobs . After 2014 , the number of newsroom employees stabilized , averaging about 88,000 workers through 2019 , with little to no change over the five-year period .
When asked whether their country should have UN approval before using military force to deal with international threats , American opinion differs considerably from that of Western Europeans . Americans are almost evenly divided on the question , with 45 % saying that the U.S. should have UN approval while 44 % say this would make it too difficult to deal with threats ; in contrast , solid majorities in the four Western European nations surveyed , including about three-quarters in Spain ( 74 % ) and Germany ( 76 % ) say their country should have UN approval before it takes military action .
The Pew Research Center 's early-April survey found that the public 's spending priorities vary greatly depending on the specific issue . At that time , more prioritized spending to make health care more accessible and affordable over reducing the budget deficit by a 59 % -to-35 % margin , and a majority also prioritized increased education spending over deficit reduction by about the same margin . But when it came to spending more to develop new energy technology , opinion was divided more evenly , with 49 % prioritizing energy spending and 45 % deficit reduction .
And as was the case in the preceding scenario , the public has differing views on which aspects of this story represent online harassment . A very small share of Americans ( 3 % ) think Julie 's initial disagreement with her friends counts as online harassment . Some 43 % consider it harassment when she begins to receive unkind messages , while around one-in-five ( 17 % ) consider it harassment when her post is shared by the popular blogger with thousands of followers . Meanwhile , substantial majorities of Americans think Julie is being harassed when she receives vulgar messages about her looks and sexual behavior ( 85 % ) , when her picture is edited to include sexual images ( 84 % ) , and when she receives threatening messages ( 85 % ) . For example , some 43 % of Americans consider it to be online harassment when Julie receives unkind messages from the people reading her post – but just 20 % think that the platform should have stepped in to address that behavior when it occurred . The public 's attitudes diverge in similar ways on some of the more severe behaviors in the scenario . Most prominently , 85 % of Americans think that Julie experiences online harassment when she begins to receive vulgar messages about her looks and sexual behavior . But substantially fewer ( although still a majority at 66 % ) think that the social media platform has an obligation to step in and address that behavior .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that many Americans can answer at least some questions about science concepts – most can correctly answer a question about antibiotics overuse or the definition of an `` incubation period , '' for example . But other concepts are more challenging ; fewer Americans can recognize a hypothesis or identify that bases are the main components of antacids . Americans ' knowledge of specific facts connected with life sciences and earth and other physical sciences varies , of course . About eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) correctly identify that antibiotic resistance is a major concern about the overuse of antibiotics . A similar share ( 76 % ) know an incubation period is the time during which someone has an infection but is not showing symptoms .
There are 102 women serving as voting members of the House of Representatives currently in the 116th Congress , comprising 23.4 % of House members . Of these , 89 are Democrats and 13 are Republicans . In addition , four women serve as nonvoting delegates to Congress , representing American Samoa , the District of Columbia , Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands . Jeannette Rankin ( R-Mont . ) was the first woman to be elected to Congress , taking office in 1917 . Nancy Pelosi ( D-Calif. ) is the only woman to have served as speaker of the House . She was speaker from 2007 to 2011 , served as the House minority leader in the Republican-controlled house from 2011 to 2019 and was elected speaker again in 2019 . Cathy McMorris Rodgers ( R-Wash. ) , chair of the Republican Conference , is the highest ranking Republican woman in the House .
If debate about O'Connor 's replacement is not framed with respect to the repeal of Roe vs. Wade , it is likely to mostly attract the attention of strong Republican conservatives and liberal Democrats . Pew 's political typology survey found that nearly six-in-ten Enterprisers ( 59 % ) say the choice is very important personally , as do roughly half of Liberals ( 49 % ) and Social Conservatives ( 47 % ) . Fewer than four-in-ten in the other typology groups attach great personal importance to the choice of the next Supreme Court justice ( see `` Beyond Red vs. Blue , '' May 10 , 2005 ) .
Eight-in-ten or more Democrats either strongly or somewhat favor each of the five proposals , while there is more variation among Republicans . Even on policies where there is overwhelming bipartisan support – such as requiring police to be trained in nonviolent alternatives to deadly force , favored by nine-in-ten or more in both parties – Democrats are more likely than Republicans to strongly support such a policy ( 84 % vs. 55 % ) . An overwhelming majority of Democrats ( 89 % ) say they favor giving civilian oversight boards power to investigate and discipline officers accused of misconduct , with 62 % saying they strongly favor this . A narrower majority ( 58 % ) of Republicans say they either strongly or somewhat favor oversight boards ( 19 % strongly favor ) . There is a similar pattern of opinion about making it a crime for police to use chokeholds or strangleholds ( 88 % of Democrats and 57 % of Republicans favor this ) . Overwhelming majorities of both Republicans ( 85 % ) and Democrats ( 94 % ) favor creating a federal government database to track officers accused of misconduct . However , while about three-quarters of Democrats ( 77 % ) strongly favor this proposal , fewer than half of Republicans say the same ( 44 % ) .
About half ( 53 % ) of Americans still see cigarette smoking as an extremely or very serious public health problem , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted last November . But the public now sees it as less of a problem than a number of other public health issues like cancer and obesity , and less of a problem than it did in 2004 when 72 % rated it as serious in an ABC News/Time poll .
Publics are somewhat divided over the impact of immigration on crime , with a median of 38 % believing that immigrants are more to blame for crime than other groups and 45 % saying immigrants are no more to blame . The share who say immigrants are more responsible for crime ranges from 22 % in France and the UK to 59 % in Greece .
Nicotine was the most commonly cited substance being used in e-cigarettes for most groups of students in 2018 . Vaping just flavoring , by comparison , was more common for 12th graders ( 14 % ) , 10th graders ( 13 % ) and eighth graders ( 8 % ) than for college students ( 5 % ) in the previous month .
When those who cite multiple frustrations with the tax system are asked what bothers them most , a similar hierarchy of concerns is evident : About a quarter of the public ( 28 % ) says they are most bothered by the feeling that corporations do not pay their fair share and 25 % say the same about wealthy people not paying their fair share . Fewer ( 19 % ) point to the complexity of the tax system , while much smaller percentages cite the amount they pay in taxes ( 7 % ) and the feeling that the poor do n't pay their fair share ( 4 % ) . The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 18 - 22 among 1,504 adults , finds that about half ( 53 % ) say they pay about the right amount in taxes , considering what they get from the federal government ; fewer ( 40 % ) feel like they pay more than their fair share in taxes . Just 4 % say they pay less than their fair share of taxes . These views have changed little since December 2011 .
2 Mobile is becoming a preferred device for digital news . The portion of Americans who ever get news on a mobile device has gone up from 54 % in 2013 to 72 % today . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans get news on both desktop/laptop and mobile , but more of those prefer mobile ( 56 % ) than desktop ( 42 % ) .
The partisan divide over the use of U.S. ground forces is stark : 63 % of Republicans favor the use of U.S. ground forces in Iraq and Syria ; an identical percentage of Democrats are opposed . Independents are divided ( 48 % oppose , 44 % favor ) .
Atheists and agnostics know more about religion than most other religious groups , while people who identify as `` nothing in particular '' are among the least knowledgeable . Out of 32 multiple-choice questions on the survey , atheists and agnostics get more than half right , on average ( 17.9 and 17.0 questions correct , respectively ) , while those who say their religion is `` nothing in particular '' get about a third correct ( 11.4 questions ) . This means that atheists and agnostics are among the highest scorers on the survey – along with Jews and evangelical Protestants – while those who say their religion is `` nothing in particular '' have some of the lowest scores . Americans overall get an average of 14.2 out of 32 questions right .
In the U.S. , 75 % believe gender equality is likely . An additional 14 % volunteer the response that women already have the same rights as men . One-in-ten or more in most Central and Eastern European nations , as well as Ukraine , Greece , Italy , Russia , Israel and Tunisia , agree that women and men already have equal rights .
Male gun owners are more likely than female gun owners to say there is a gun that is both loaded and easily accessible to them all of the time when they 're at home . Some 43 % of men who own guns say this is the case , compared with 29 % of women gun owners . However , among those who own handguns , equal shares of men and women ( 26 % each ) say they carry their gun outside their home all or most of the time .
An estimated 278,000 Hispanics of Argentine origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Argentines in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Argentine origin ; this includes immigrants from Argentina and those who trace their family ancestry to Argentina . Argentines are the 14th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for less than 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Argentine-origin population has increased 158 % , growing from 108,000 to 278,000 over the period . At the same time , the Argentine foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 96 % , from 83,000 in 2000 to 163,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
Those who personally know someone who has had an abortion are only modestly more likely than those who do not to say abortion should be legal . Almost two-thirds of those who know someone who has had an abortion say abortion should be legal in all or most cases ( 64 % ) . Among those who do not know someone who has had an abortion , support for legal abortion is slightly lower ( 57 % ) .
China is viewed as principally a military threat by slightly more than a third of Americans ( 36 % ) . If an Asian ally such as Japan , South Korea , or the Philippines were to become embroiled in a military conflict with China , most Americans ( 58 % ) would back the use of force against Beijing . Nearly two-in-three Republicans ( 65 % ) and 62 % of independents hold this view . And by a 52 % -39 % margin , Democrats also favor using force to defend an Asian ally .
France 's image is largely negative in four of the six Middle Eastern countries polled . Majorities of Turks ( 73 % ) , Jordanians ( 61 % ) , Egyptians ( 61 % ) , and Palestinians ( 57 % ) rate France negatively . However , even though Tunisians disapprove of the intervention in Mali , 63 % in the former French protectorate hold a favorable view of France . The Lebanese are split , with 51 % expressing a positive opinion and 48 % a negative one . Roughly six-in-ten Lebanese Sunni ( 63 % ) and Christians ( 57 % ) have a favorable opinion of France , but only around two-in-ten Lebanese Shia ( 18 % ) agree .
The overall surge in the number of foreign college graduates participating in OPT is largely attributable to a 400 % increase in STEM graduates approved to temporarily work in the U.S. since 2008 .
Opinion on whether or not Republican and Democratic voters can agree on basic facts differs by race and ethnicity . Whites ( 82 % ) are far more likely than blacks ( 70 % ) or Hispanics ( 64 % ) to say that voters can not agree on basic facts . And while about a third ( 34 % ) of Hispanics and 26 % of blacks say that voters of both major parties can agree on basic facts , fewer whites ( 17 % ) say the same . Younger Americans are less likely than older Americans to say that the two parties can not agree on basic facts . About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 say Republican and Democratic voters can not agree on basic facts . In contrast , those ages 30 to 49 ( 78 % ) , 50 to 64 ( 80 % ) and 65 and older ( 83 % ) are much more likely to say the same thing . And while nearly one-third of 18- to 29-year-olds ( 29 % ) say that partisans do agree on basic facts , just 16 % of those 65 and older say the same .
In this analysis , a multigenerational caregiver is any parent who is age 18 or older , lives with their own child younger than 18 and provided unpaid adult care on the prior day , according to the BLS American Time Use Survey data . Caregiving can include an array of activities : Adult care may include tasks such as providing hands-on assistance with dressing , eating or medical care ; providing transportation to appointments ; or helping to maintain the homes or finances of those who receive care . Child care may also include hands-on assistance , as well as reading or playing , attending children 's events or helping with homework . A multigenerational caregiver may be providing care to anyone who needs it , be it a relative , friend or neighbor . ( See additional tables for a detailed list of caregiving activities included in this analysis . ) Multigenerational caregivers spend 21 fewer minutes per day sleeping than parents who are not also caring for an adult . But they spend 16 minutes more a day engaged in leisure and personal activities and 14 minutes more a day doing housework and errands .
Although there is a pervasive gloominess about the state of the economy throughout much of the world , Africans are relatively positive about their short- and long-term economic future . Across the nine African nations polled , a median of 60 % say they expect their country 's economy to improve over the next 12 months , the highest of any region . A median of 56 % believe children in their country today will be financially better off than their parents , and about seven-in-ten or more hold this view in Nigeria , Ethiopia and Burkina Faso . Africans continue to say their countries face a variety of challenges . Despite the optimism about the economic future , people still have many economic concerns – for instance , a median of 88 % say the lack of employment opportunities is a very big problem . And when asked about six potential areas for improvement , beyond strictly economic issues , many identify health care and education as top priorities . Health care is the top choice in eight of nine countries , while education tops the list in South Africa .
A substantial share of men in the U.S. ( 45 % ) say men face a lot or some pressure to join in when other men talk about women in a sexual way . Four-in-ten men perceive similar societal pressure on men to have many sexual partners . In both cases , Millennial men are more likely than older men to say such pressures exist . About six-in-ten Millennial men ( 61 % ) , for example , say there is societal pressure on men to have many sexual partners , a view shared by only about a third or fewer men in older generations .
Most Americans hoped for efforts at cooperation between Trump and Democratic leaders in the current Congress , according to a post-election survey conducted in November . More than eight-in-ten U.S. adults ( 84 % ) said Trump should cooperate either a great deal ( 39 % ) or a fair amount ( 45 % ) with Democratic leaders over the next two years . A smaller majority ( 65 % ) , however , said Democratic leaders should cooperate with Trump a great deal ( 28 % ) or a fair amount ( 36 % ) .
Pew Research has tracked vote preference among different age cohorts in the past several presidential and midterm elections and looked at who was president when each cohort turned 18 . Does the person who is in the White House when people come of age affect their long-term political leanings ? By looking at likely voters from our pre-election surveys , we can see how each age cohort voted relative to the national average .
Children ages 11 and younger also engage with Instagram , though not as much as with other sites . Despite most social media sites having age guidelines in place , which usually restrict children younger than 13 from joining , some 5 % of parents of a child age 11 or younger say that , as far as they know , their child uses Instagram , according to a 2020 survey . When considering only children ages 9 to 11 , however , this share increases to 11 % . Platforms like TikTok and Snapchat are more popular than Instagram among children 11 and younger , according to their parents .
And as international migration has increased , the breakdown of where sub-Saharan emigrants live has changed . In 1990 , 75 % of emigrants from the region lived in other sub-Saharan countries , a share that dropped to 68 % by 2017 . Over the same period , the share of sub-Saharan emigrants who live in the United States climbed from 2 % to 6 % . This has helped make African immigrants a small but fast-growing slice of the overall U.S. immigrant population . As of 2017 , nearly 1.5 million sub-Saharan immigrants lived in the U.S. , according to UN data .
Relatively few Americans say they have ever expressed their feelings about the issue of guns by either posting on social media ( 26 % ) , contributing money to an organization that takes a position on gun policy ( 14 % ) , contacting a public official to express an opinion on guns ( 14 % ) or attending a rally or protest about the issue of guns ( 6 % ) . On two behaviors surveyed in 2017 and today – contributing money to an organization or contacting a public official – the share who report having done either is little changed . In 2017 , 6 % of adults said they had contacted a public official in the previous year to express an opinion on gun policy . Today , 7 % of adults say they have contacted an official in the past 12 months . Similarly , in 2017 , 7 % of adults said they had contributed money to an organization in the past year . Today , an equal share ( 7 % ) say the same .
Even so , the current Congress remains on pace to be one of the least legislatively productive in recent history . As of Monday , 165 laws had been enacted since January 2013 , 124 of which were substantive by our deliberately generous criteria ( no post-office renamings , commemorative-coin authorizations or other purely ceremonial laws ) . Both those figures are the lowest of any Congress in the past two decades over an equivalent timespan .
This stands in sharp contrast to older voters . Fully 76 % of voters 30 and older were white , down only six points from 2000 . Only 24 % of voters 30 and older were nonwhite , including 12 % who identified as black and 8 % as Hispanic .
Recipients of these special immigrant visas can receive refugee resettlement benefits from the U.S. government , which include 30 to 120 days of financial assistance . About 85 % of those who have entered the U.S. under the special immigrant visa programs ( from Oct. 1 , 2007 , to Sept 30 , 2017 ) have received refugee assistance and resettled in states across the country . Top resettlement states during this time include California ( 17,416 ) , Texas ( 10,598 ) , and Virginia ( 7,249 ) .
About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 say the primary way they watch television now is with streaming services on the internet . Much smaller shares of older Americans cite online streaming services as their primary way of watching TV ; older Americans tend to rely on cable connections . Overall , just 28 % of Americans cite streaming services as the primary way they watch TV .
Overall , the public remains skeptical about the prospects of Cuba shifting in a democratic direction but more ( 43 % ) say they think the communist country will become more democratic over the next several years than did so in January ( 32 % ) . About half ( 49 % ) say they expect Cuba to stay about the same as it is now .
The public 's views of torture against suspected terrorists have remained generally stable over the past decade . One-in-five ( 20 % ) say the use of torture against suspected terrorists can often be justified to gain important information . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say it can sometimes be justified , 20 % think it can rarely be justified , and 27 % say it can never be justified .
About one-in-four Americans ( 26 % ) who have been harassed online say an acquaintance was behind their most recent incident , according to a recent Pew Research Center report . And in other cases , targets of online abuse are even more familiar with their harassers : 18 % of those who have been harassed say their most recent incident involved a friend , while 11 % say it involved a family member . Smaller shares say their most recent experience involved a former romantic partner ( 7 % ) or a co-worker ( 5 % ) . Taken together , nearly half of Americans ( 46 % ) who have experienced some form of online harassment say they know the person or persons responsible for their most recent incident – the same as the share ( 46 % ) who say their harasser was a stranger or someone whose real identity was unknown to them . ( The remaining 8 % were harassed by people both known and unknown to them . )
Outside of Ukraine , many European publics supported the country 's entry into NATO . Majorities in Poland ( 64 % ) , Lithuania ( 58 % ) , France ( 54 % ) and nearly half in Bulgaria ( 49 % ) , Czech Republic ( 46 % ) , and Spain ( 46 % ) favored Ukraine joining NATO . However , Germans and Italians disagreed — 53 % in Germany and 42 % of Italians opposed Ukraine 's membership in the military alliance .
About six in ten American adults ( 59 % ) go online wirelessly , either through their smartphones or through a wireless card in their laptop .3 Adults age 45 and younger are the most likely to connect to the internet with a laptop , cell phone , or other internet-connected mobile device , as 82 % of Millennials and 71 % of Gen X connect that way . Only 9 % of the G.I . Generation go online wirelessly .
About half of the public ( 48 % ) says they followed news about the powerful tornadoes that struck Joplin , Mo. , more closely than any other news last week . None of the week 's other top stories comes close , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted May 26 - 29 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press .
Public interest in news about the economy remains high relative to other top stories of the week . Last week , 39 % of Americans followed news about the U.S. economy very closely and 26 % said it was the story they followed more closely than any other , making it the public 's top news item .
This chart shows the high degree of geographic diversification that occurred for the unauthorized population during the 1990s . In 1990 , 45 % of the unauthorized population , or about 1.6 million persons , lived in California ; by 2004 , the share had dropped to 24 % . Note , however , that because of the sizeable growth in the unauthorized population , California still experienced substantial growth to about 2.4 million or growth of about 45 % . Texas ' share increased while New York 's dropped significantly . In Florida , New Jersey , and Illinois , the shares changed little , but the numbers increased significantly . ( Note that the number of unauthorized migrants in each of these six states was larger in 2004 than in 1990 , even when the share of the national total decreased . )
And the Republican Party fares much better on issues than image . Despite the majority view that the GOP lacks empathy for the middle class , about as many Americans say the Republican Party ( 44 % ) as the Democratic Party ( 41 % ) can do better in dealing with the economy . On immigration the public also is divided : 45 % say the Democrats can do better , while 43 % prefer the GOP . The only issue on which Democrats have an edge is on health care ( 47 % to 40 % ) . Views of the party best able to handle foreign policy have taken a particular turn in favor of the Republican Party : Today 48 % say the GOP would do a better job on this issue , while 35 % say the Democratic Party . This is the first time during the Obama administration that the GOP has held the edge on foreign policy .
But a narrow majority ( 56 % ) agree that in certain areas of the city it is more useful for an officer to be aggressive than to be courteous . And a substantial share of officers ( 44 % ) agree that some people can only be brought to reason the hard , physical way .
Six-in-ten women under the age of 35 who have used online dating sites or apps say someone continued to contact them after they said they were not interested , compared with 27 % of men in this age range . Younger female users are also about twice as likely as their male counterparts to say someone on a dating site or app has called them an offensive name ( 44 % vs. 23 % ) or threatened to physically harm them ( 19 % vs. 9 % ) . Other encounters that young women describe are more overtly sexual : 57 % of female online dating users ages 18 to 34 say someone has sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did not ask for . This compares with 28 % among male users in the same age range . ( In this analysis , online dating users are the 30 % of U.S. adults who answered yes to the following question : `` Have you ever used an online dating site or dating app ? '' )
In general , online dating services use data to improve customer experience , namely to present users with better matches . To get a sense of how people rate their knowledge of the digital matchmaking process , the Center asked online dating users how well they feel they understand why online dating services present certain people as potential matches . The majority of online dating users ( 58 % ) report they understand the process either very or somewhat well . Among online daters who characterize their previous experiences with dating sites and apps as very or somewhat positive , nearly seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) report understanding the process very or somewhat well , compared with 44 % of those who have had very or somewhat negative experiences with online dating . A similar pattern exists for those who have met their current partners through online dating .
Consistent partisans are also substantially more likely than others to say they talk about politics at least a few times a week . About half of consistent Republicans ( 49 % ) and Democrats ( 52 % ) say they talk about politics every day or a few times a week . That compares with only about third of Republicans ( 29 % ) and Democrats ( 35 % ) who have shifted their party affiliation or leaning over the past two years .
Six major publicly held local TV station companies – Tribune , Nexstar , Sinclair , Tegna , Gray and Scripps – report political advertising revenue separately from other types of revenues in their Securities and Exchange Commission filings . In 2018 , the six companies reported a total of $ 1.2 billion in political advertising revenue , compared with $ 843 million in 2016 and $ 696 million in 2014 , the two most recent election years . ( Data points for 2012 to 2016 also include Media General , which was purchased by Nexstar in 2017 . )
The Middle East displays relatively high rates of participation among the regions surveyed . In the home of the Arab Spring and its aftermath , a median of 53 % fall into the `` high '' category of our participation index . While Egypt stands out as having the highest participation on a number of political activities , participation is also relatively high in several of the other Middle Eastern nations surveyed , including Jordan , Lebanon and the Palestinian territories . Involvement in politics is less prevalent in Asia and the formerly communist Eastern European nations included in the survey .
Overall the American public tends to see the effects of science on society in a positive light . Fully 79 % of citizens say that science has made life easier for most people , while just 15 % say it has made life more difficult . However , the balance of opinion is slightly less positive today than in 2009 when positive views outpaced negative ones by a margin of 83 % to 10 % . Similarly , a majority of adults says the effect of science on the quality of U.S. health care , food and the environment is mostly positive as was also the case in 2009 . The share saying that science has had a negative effect in each area has increased slightly . For example , 79 % of adults say that science has had a positive effect on the quality of health care , down from 85 % in 2009 while negative views have ticked up from 10 % in 2009 to 18 % today .
Majorities of Americans continue to say the federal government is doing too little to protect key aspects of the environment . About two-thirds of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to protect water quality of rivers , lakes and streams ( 67 % ) , protect air quality ( 65 % ) and reduce the effects of climate change ( 65 % ) . About six-in-ten think the federal government is doing too little to protect animals and their habitats ( 62 % ) , and a slightly smaller majority say the federal government is doing too little to protect open lands in national parks ( 54 % ) .
A narrow majority of American parents say parents could never be too involved in a child 's education , but about four-in-ten say too much involvement could be a bad thing . Parents with family incomes of $ 75,000 or higher are more than twice as likely as parents with incomes below $ 30,000 to say that too much parental involvement in education could be a bad thing ( 59 % vs. 23 % ) . Parents with at least a bachelor 's degree are also more likely to say this than parents with lower levels of education .
1 A third ( 34 % ) of Americans liked or loved doing their taxes , according to the survey we conducted at this time last year . Of course , that left 56 % who did n't like the annual exercise including 26 % who hated doing their taxes . Among those who liked doing taxes , the largest share said it was to get a refund followed by those who said they did n't mind or prided themselves for being good at . The IRS says the average refund so far this year is $ 2,792 .
Among Warren and Sanders supporters , larger shares rate policy positions as most important ( 38 % and 43 % , respectively ) than cite a candidate 's personal characteristics or electability . While electability is a leading factor for most Democrats , it is less important for Sanders supporters ( only 10 % of whom mention electability ) .
The public is split in their general preferences on the size and scope of government : 47 % say they would rather have a smaller government providing fewer services while an identical share say they would prefer a bigger government providing more services . While more men prefer a smaller government to a bigger government ( 59 % to 37 % ) , the balance of opinion is reverse among women ; 58 % prefer a larger government , while 36 % say they would rather have a smaller government . A majority of those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more ( 60 % ) say they would rather have smaller government with fewer services . In contrast , most of those with incomes of less than $ 30,000 ( 62 % ) prefer a bigger government providing more services . Views are about evenly divided among those with incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 75,000 .
Conflicts in the Middle East , Africa and elsewhere are driving hundreds of thousands of refugees to seek shelter in neighboring countries , Europe and the United States . These crises are the most recent in a long line of conflicts forcing people from their homes . According to data from the State Department 's Refugee Processing Center , more than 3 million refugees in total have arrived in the U.S. since 1975 . A look at where refugees to the U.S. have come from and their number provides a glimpse into global events and the U.S. 's role in providing a safe haven . Of the 84,995 refugees admitted to the United States in fiscal year 2016 , the largest numbers came from the Democratic Republic of Congo , Syria , Burma ( Myanmar ) and Iraq .
Asked what will happen if many of the everyday interactions they have in person have to be done online or by phone because of the coronavirus outbreak , 27 % say these technologies will be just as good as in-person contact . By comparison , the largest share ( 64 % ) says these tools will be useful , but will not be a replacement for face-to-face communications , and just 8 % say the internet or phones wo n't help much at all during this time . This pattern holds true across each major demographic group . Still , there are some notable differences by educational attainment . Roughly three-quarters of college graduates ( 73 % ) say that if their everyday in-person interactions have to be done online or by phone , it will help but not be a replacement for in-person contact . That share falls to 63 % among those who have some college experience and 56 % among Americans with a high school education or less .
In surveys conducted between October 2007 and March 2008 , 58 % of voters under age 30 identified or leaned toward the Democratic Party , compared with 33 % who identified or leaned toward the GOP . The Democratic Party 's current lead in party identification among young voters has more than doubled since the 2004 campaign , from 11 points to 25 points .
Fully 90 % of Americans think people pretend to be someone else in order to try to steal people 's personal information often or sometimes , with roughly half ( 49 % ) saying they think this happens often . While these overall shares are fairly consistent across demographic groups , there is more variation across groups on whether people often pretend to be someone else to steal information . Black adults ( 63 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 56 % ) are more likely than White ( 45 % ) or Asian adults ( 35 % ) to say this type of attempted theft happens often . Additionally , those with relatively low incomes and less formal education are more likely to say people pretend to be someone else in order to steal others ' information often . Roughly six-in-ten of those who have lower incomes say so , compared with about half of those from middle-income households ( 47 % ) and about four-in-ten of those with higher incomes ( 37 % ) .
That included roughly three-quarters or more in Nigeria , Israel , Tunisia , South Korea , Lebanon , Kenya , Mexico and Brazil . Respondents in Turkey and Indonesia were more divided , with 46 % and 44 % of adults , respectively , saying they favored building new factories .
Still , some social media users are ambivalent about seeing these types of posts or find them enjoyable . About four-in-ten say they do n't feel strongly about encountering these discussions , while a much smaller share ( 15 % ) say they like seeing lots of political posts on social media .
A little over half of Indian adults ( 54 % ) are satisfied with the way democracy is working in their country , but a third are dissatisfied . Men are more likely than women to give Indian democracy a thumbs-up , though one-in-five women decline to offer an opinion . Satisfaction with the state of India 's democracy also differs by party affiliation : Three-quarters of BJP supporters are satisfied , compared with only 42 % of Congress adherents .
Most U.S. adults ( 58 % ) say they trust scientific research findings less if they hear that the research was funded by an industry group . About a third ( 32 % ) say industry funding makes no difference in whether they trust research , while only 10 % say they trust industry-funded research findings more . The pattern is similar when it comes to trusting science practitioners ' recommendations . Around six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) say they trust practitioner recommendations less when they hear the practitioner received financial incentives from an industry group . Around a quarter ( 27 % ) say such incentives make no difference ; 10 % say they trust practitioner recommendations more under these circumstances .
And one more digital gap exists between China and India : social media use . Six-in-ten Chinese say they use social media , compared with only 14 % of Indians . Much of this disparity is due to the fact that more people have access to the internet in China . Nearly two-thirds of Indians with internet access ( 65 % ) say they use social media . Still , this figure among the Chinese is 84 % and has increased sharply since we first began asking the question in 2013 .
As in 2006 , we asked a battery of questions about the different kinds of personal information that may be available about the respondent online . The introduction to the question reads : `` We 'd like to know if any of the following information about you is available on the internet for others to see—it does n't matter if you posted it yourself or someone else posted it . '' Respondents were also given the option to say that they did not know whether a given piece of information was available , and for many questions , respondents expressed a high level of uncertainty . While the affirmative answers paint a portrait of the user 's impression of what is available , they likely do not reflect the full extent to which these pieces of information could be uncovered by a motivated searcher . In addition , some of these items could be available publicly while others may be posted to a restricted profile or website . Read more »
The New Republic 's troubles are reflected in the data for its fellow niche news magazines , which all target an elite audience consisting of older , educated and wealthier readers . Looking at three comparable magazines ( The Atlantic , The New Yorker and The Economist ) , the digital side of the business has been making some gains , but single copy sales for this group were down or flat since 2008 , according to the Alliance for Audited Media . For the first half of 2014 , The Atlantic saw its sales rise 20 % from a year before . The New Yorker , however , fell 5 % during the same period , while The Economist fell 16 % .
Republicans have widened their lead in leaned party identification among white evangelical Protestants : About two-thirds ( 68 % ) of white evangelicals lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic . The GOP also holds a substantial advantage among Mormons . Fully 70 % of Mormons lean Republican , while just 22 % lean Democratic .
Witnessing online harassment has led some bystanders to change their online behavior . Roughly one-quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) say they have chosen not to post something after witnessing online harassment , while a similar share ( 28 % ) say they adjusted their privacy settings after seeing this type of online behavior . Some users report going a step further : 13 % of U.S. adults have stopped using an online service altogether after seeing others being harassed .
About six-in-ten adults ( 58 % ) say the government shutdown is a `` very serious problem '' for the country today , while 22 % view it as a somewhat serious problem ; just two-in-ten say that it is not too ( 13 % ) or not at all ( 7 % ) serious a problem for the country . Democrats are far more likely than Republicans to view the shutdown as a very serious problem for the nation : Nearly eight-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 79 % ) say this , compared with just 35 % of Republicans and Republican leaners . Only about a quarter of conservative Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 27 % ) see the shutdown as a very serious problem facing the country , compared with 47 % of moderate and liberal Republicans . Ideological differences among Democrats are more modest : 85 % of liberal Democrats consider the shutdown a very serious problem , while 73 % of conservative and moderate Democrats say the same .
Those self-identifying as disabled are somewhat more likely than the general public to report being particularly engaged with this election . In a survey conducted in June , fully 71 % of Americans with disabilities said it `` really matters who wins the election , '' compared with 59 % of Americans who do not have a disability .
At the same time , majorities in nearly all nations also embrace another form of democracy that places less emphasis on elected representatives . A global median of 66 % say direct democracy – in which citizens , rather than elected officials , vote on major issues – would be a good way to govern . This idea is especially popular among Western European populists .
Proximity to abortion clinics is associated with individual perceptions of how easy or difficult it is to obtain an abortion . However , partisanship is a more important factor than distance to the nearest abortion provider in shaping peoples ' views of whether an abortion should be harder or easier to obtain locally , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of an American Trends Panel survey conducted July 22-Aug. 4 , 2019 .
Six-in-ten or more Indonesians say they are likely to take political action on a range of issues , but most say they have never actually participated in civic activities . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) said they would take action such as contacting an election official or participating in demonstrations when it comes to poor quality schools or health care . Roughly as many ( 65 % ) said they would do so if the issue was poverty , and 62 % said they would engage in political activity in support of freedom of speech .
While many Americans may be resigned to seeing automatic spending cuts in the budget sequester go into effect , the public is concerned about the potential impact of the reductions . A new national survey by the Pew Research Center and The Washington Post , conducted Feb. 21 - 24 among 1,000 adults , finds that most say the budget sequester would have a major effect on the economy as well as on the U.S. military . And by more than three-to-one ( 62 % -18 % ) , the public sees the impact on the economy as mostly negative rather than mostly positive . Yet the new survey finds six-in-ten-ten ( 60 % ) saying automatic federal spending cuts would have a major effect on the U.S. economy and nearly as many ( 55 % ) say the same for the U.S. military . Fewer ( 45 % ) say the cuts would have a major impact on the federal budget deficit , while just ( 30 % ) think their own personal finances would be affected in a major way .
But any reform plan entailing cuts to benefits likely would face an uphill battle for public support . The 2014 Pew Research survey also found large majorities across all generations agreeing that Social Security benefits should n't be reduced ; even among Millennials , the generation furthest from retirement , only 37 % said future benefit reductions should be considered .
The public appears ready for a truce in the long-running war on drugs . A national survey by the Pew Research Center finds that 67 % of Americans say that the government should focus more on providing treatment for those who use illegal drugs such as heroin and cocaine . Just 26 % think the government 's focus should be on prosecuting users of such hard drugs .
Finally , TTIP is being negotiated at a time of rising anti-EU sentiment across Europe , including in Germany . A growing number of people are questioning some of the founding principles of the European Union ( see the 2013 Pew Research Center report on the topic ) , including the right of the European Commission to negotiate all trade agreements for EU member states . Asked whether the European Union should negotiate international trade agreements on behalf of Germany or should the German government negotiate trade accords for Germany , by more than two-to-one ( 65 % to 28 % ) Germans say Berlin not Brussels should be the negotiator . Support for this reassertion of the nation state 's role in international commercial agreements is particularly strong ( 73 % ) among members of the Christian Democratic Union , Christian Social Union and the Free Democratic Parties . Backing for returning this authority to Berlin is strong , but somewhat less so ( 60 % ) , among members of the Social Democratic Party .
By about four-to-one ( 80 % to 18 % ) , African Americans say the shooting in Ferguson raises important issues about race that merit discussion . By contrast , whites , by 47 % to 37 % , say the issue of race is getting more attention than it deserves .
Recent migrants added to already substantial foreign-born populations living in Sweden , Norway and Austria – all nations in which the foreign born make up 15 % or more of the population in 2016 . Sweden had the greatest increase , rising from about 16.8 % in 2015 to 18.3 % in 2016 , a 1.5-percentage-point increase . The foreign-born shares in Norway ( 15.3 % in 2016 ) and Austria ( 18.5 % in 2016 ) increased by about 1 point over the same period . Countries with smaller immigrant populations like Hungary and Finland also saw their foreign-born shares increase significantly due to the 2015 - 2016 migration surge . Hungary 's foreign-born share rose from 4.6 % in 2015 to 5.8 % in 2016 , a 1.3-point increase . In Finland , the share of foreign born rose an estimated 0.8 points , from 5.7 % to 6.5 % . Several European countries , however , saw little change in their percent foreign born between 2015 and 2016 . The United Kingdom and France – countries with significant immigrant populations – received far fewer asylum applicants relative to their population size in 2015 - 16 than other countries , and each saw a relatively modest 0.2-percentage-point increase in their foreign-born shares ( to 13.4 % in the UK and 12.3 % in France for 2016 ) .
More than 37 million Latinos in the U.S. speak Spanish at home , making it the country 's most common non-English language . But while the number of Latinos who speak Spanish at home continues to increase due to the overall growth of the Latino population , the share of Latinos who speak the language has declined over the past decade or so : 73 % of Latinos spoke Spanish at home in 2015 , down from 78 % in 2006 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . The national decline in Spanish use among Latinos extended to all of the top 25 U.S. metro areas with the largest population of Latinos ages 5 and older . The San Antonio-New Braunfels and Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale metro areas had some of the largest declines , with the shares who spoke Spanish in each declining by 9 percentage points . Some of the smallest declines came in the Washington-Arlington-Alexandria , McAllen-Edinburg-Mission , Sacramento-Roseville-Arden-Arcade and Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach metro areas , where the share who spoke Spanish at home declined by about 2 percentage points each from 2006 to 2015 . ( Click here for a sortable table of Spanish use by metro area . )
More than three-quarters of Americans say that additional spending on roads , bridges and other public works would improve the job situation a lot ( 36 % ) or a little ( 41 % ) . Smaller majorities say that cutting taxes on businesses ( 70 % ) , budget cuts to reduce the deficit ( 65 % ) and cutting personal income taxes ( 60 % ) would do a lot or a little to help the job situation .
Among eight institutions , the military receives the next highest level of public confidence ( 38 % have a great deal of confidence in this group ) . Smaller shares of Americans express a great deal of confidence in other institutions such as journalists ( 9 % ) or elected officials ( 3 % ) .
The public 's views of torture against suspected terrorists have remained generally stable over the past decade . One-in-five ( 20 % ) say the use of torture against suspected terrorists can often be justified to gain important information . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say it can sometimes be justified , 20 % think it can rarely be justified , and 27 % say it can never be justified . Among Republicans , three-in-ten ( 30 % ) think that the use of torture against suspected terrorists can often be justified , 38 % sometimes justified , 16 % rarely justified , and 11 % never justified . Just 11 % of Democrats say this practice can often be justified , 25 % sometimes , 21 % rarely , and a plurality ( 40 % ) say it can never be justified . In both parties , there is an ideological divide in terms of these attitudes . While 35 % of conservative Republicans say torture to gain information from suspected terrorists can often be justified , just 21 % of moderate and liberal Republicans agree . And about half ( 51 % ) of liberal Democrats say the use of torture can never be justified , compared with 32 % of moderates and conservatives in the party .
People in countries with high per-capita levels of carbon emissions are less intensely concerned about climate change . Among the nations we surveyed , the U.S. has the highest carbon emissions per capita , but it is among the least concerned about climate change and its potential impact . Others in this category are Australia , Canada and Russia . Publics in Africa , Latin America and Asia , many of which have very low emissions per capita , are frequently the most concerned about the negative effects of climate change . Climate change is not seen as a distant threat . A global median of 51 % say climate change is already harming people around the world , while another 28 % believe it will do so in the next few years . This view is especially common in Latin America . For instance , fully 90 % of Brazilians say climate change is harming people now . Europeans are also particularly likely to hold this opinion . However , only 41 % of Americans believe people are being harmed by climate change today .
An overwhelming majority in Nigeria have an unfavorable opinion of Boko Haram , the terrorist group that has been wreaking havoc in the northern regions of the country , including a high profile kidnapping of hundreds of female schoolchildren during the early stages of fieldwork for this survey . Overall , 82 % of Nigerians have an unfavorable view of Boko Haram ( which loosely translates as `` Western education is sin '' ) , including 79 % of whom have a very unfavorable view . Negative opinions are shared by Muslims ( 80 % ) and Christians ( 83 % ) alike . Only 10 % of Nigerians have a favorable view of the group . Support is little changed from 2013 .
About half of American adults ( 49 % ) `` ever play video games on a computer , TV , game console , or portable device like a cellphone , '' and 10 % consider themselves to be `` gamers . ''
While the Supreme Court has ruled that the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits school-sponsored prayer in public schools , the court also has made clear that individual students have a right to pray in public settings . And , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of teens ages 13 to 17 , a sizable share of students in public school are availing themselves of this right . The survey also examined public school prayer from a different angle by asking teens whether they see other students praying before eating lunch . Around one-in-six teens in public schools ( 16 % ) say they often or sometimes see other students doing this . Teens who identify with a religion are more likely than those who self-identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' to notice this ( 19 % vs. 9 % ) . Prayer in a school setting does n't just take place before lunch and , in fact , teens in public school are more likely to see students praying before sporting events ( 39 % ) than before lunch , according to the survey . Again , there are differences in these answers across religious groups : About half of evangelical Protestant teens ( 55 % ) and mainline Protestant teens ( 52 % ) say they commonly see other students praying before sporting events , as do 42 % of Catholic teens . By comparison , religiously unaffiliated teens – also known as `` nones '' – are far less likely to see this type of prayer ( 24 % ) .
At this early stage of the presidential race , there are notable demographic differences in the preferences of Democratic voters . Roughly four-in-ten Democrats ( 41 % ) ages 65 and older name Biden as their first choice for the nomination , as do about a third of Democratic voters ages 50 to 64 ( 32 % ) . Biden 's support is much lower among younger Democrats ; among those under age 30 , just 7 % name the former vice president as their first choice . In contrast with Biden , Sanders draws much more support among Democrats under 30 ( 24 % ) than those 65 and older ( 4 % ) . Unlike Biden and Sanders , there are only modest differences across age groups in support for Warren and Harris . Biden is the first choice of 29 % of black Democratic voters , compared with about 10 % each for Sanders and Harris . A relatively large proportion of black Democrats ( 45 % ) express no preference in the open-ended question . Among white Democrats , preferences are more divided , with 26 % naming Biden as their first choice , 20 % naming Warren , and smaller shares supporting Harris ( 12 % ) , Sanders ( 10 % ) and Pete Buttigieg ( 9 % ) .
Plastic surgery has since expanded from treatments aimed mainly at repairing damage to include elective changes like liposuction or tummy tucks . While it 's now a multibillion-dollar industry , just 4 % of Americans say they have ever had elective cosmetic surgery , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring 2016 . Less invasive procedures like skin or lip injections are also rare ; just 2 % of U.S. adults report having had this done .
Educational attainment is an especially important factor when it comes to perceptions of the conspiracy theory . Around half of Americans with a high school diploma or less education ( 48 % ) say the theory is probably or definitely true , according to the survey , which was conducted as part of the Center 's American News Pathways project . That compares with 38 % of those who have completed some college but have no degree , 24 % of those with a bachelor 's degree and 15 % of those with a postgraduate degree . Roughly a third of Black ( 33 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 34 % ) say the theory is probably or definitely true , compared with about two-in-ten white adults ( 22 % ) and Asian Americans ( 19 % ) . And women are slightly more likely than men ( 29 % vs. 21 % ) to see at least some truth in the conspiracy theory that powerful people planned the outbreak .
Even as the internet has embedded itself in numerous aspects of American life , many of today 's workers make only marginal use of the internet for accomplishing work-related tasks . Indeed , some 17 % of workers report that they `` hardly ever '' use the internet on a typical day for work-related tasks , while 25 % report that they `` never '' use the internet for this reason .
Not only are men who have recently remarried more likely than those beginning a first marriage to have a spouse who is younger ; in many cases , she is much younger . Some 20 % of men who are newly remarried have a wife who is at least 10 years their junior , and another 18 % married a woman who is 6 - 9 years younger . By comparison , just 5 % of newlywed men in their first marriage have a spouse who is 10 years younger , and 10 % married a woman who is 6 - 9 years younger .
A separate survey by Pew Research Center finds that about four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) think it would a good thing for the country if a Democratic woman was elected president ; 32 % say this would be neither a good thing nor a bad thing , and 24 % say it would be a bad thing for the country if a Democratic woman became president . When asked about the prospect of electing a Republican woman president , 32 % say this would be a good thing , while 44 % see it as neither good nor bad and 23 % say it would be a bad thing for the country . About seven-in-ten Democrats ( 69 % ) say a woman from their own party being elected president would be a good thing for the country . But when asked about the prospect of a Republican woman president , only 21 % of Democrats say this would be a good thing ; 44 % say it would be neither good nor bad and 35 % say it would be a bad thing . Among Republicans , 47 % say it would be a good thing to have a Republican woman as president , but a similar share ( 42 % ) see this as neither good nor bad . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say this would be a bad thing for the country . Republicans have far less positive views about the prospect of a Democratic woman being elected president : Just 10 % say this would be a good thing while half ( 52 % ) say it would be a bad thing for the country .
Internet users in their twenties are more likely than those in their fifties and sixties to have traveled far and wide online , trying new things and possibly learning hard lessons about the dangers that lurk on the network . In a survey focused on the impact of software intrusions on the internet , the Pew Internet Project found that younger internet users are more likely than older users to say they have spyware on their home computers ( 45 % of internet users ages 18 - 28 report having spyware , compared to 27 % of internet users ages 51 - 59 ) . With the exception of reading user agreements more carefully , internet users between 18 and 28 years old are also more likely than those in their fifties to make changes in their online behavior to avoid getting unwanted software programs on their computer .4
In the wake of Russia 's annexation of Ukraine 's Crimea region , public concern about Russia has increased , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Even so , when given the choice , more describe Russia as a serious problem but not an adversary ( 43 % ) than say it represents an adversary ( 26 % ) . Just 22 % say Russia is not much of a problem .
This month Texas joined 12 other states , mainly in the South and Midwest , that have banned abortions at no later than 22 weeks of pregnancy . ( The new Texas law bans abortions at 20 weeks . Some of these other laws are temporarily blocked by court injunction . ) In polling conducted in 2012 and 2013 , about half ( 49 % ) of the residents of these 13 states believe abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . By comparison , in the other 37 states and the District of Columbia , just 36 % agree , while 58 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
Combined annual profit for Fox News , MSNBC and CNN was projected to grow 4 % in 2018 , to $ 2.8 billion .
Americans and Germans express very different opinions about the state of relations between their two countries . While roughly two-in-three Americans characterize relations as good , a 56 % majority of Germans take the opposite view .
Most Germans want to be more independent from the U.S. on foreign policy , but most Americans want to remain close with Europe . A wide majority of Germans ( 72 % ) say they want their country to be more independent from the U.S. on foreign policy , while about a quarter ( 24 % ) want it to remain as close to the U.S. as it has been . In the U.S. , roughly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) want to remain close with Europe , rather than be more independent on foreign policy ( 30 % ) .
In 2004 , the five largest companies in local TV – Sinclair , Nexstar , Gray , Tegna and Tribune – owned , operated or serviced 179 full-power stations , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Securities and Exchange Commission filings data . That number grew to 378 in 2014 and to 443 in 2016 . If approved by regulators , Sinclair 's acquisition of Tribune would bring its total to 208 , by far the largest among the media companies . In 2016 , the five biggest local TV companies ' total broadcasting revenue was $ 8.3 billion , or 30 % higher than in 2014 , the previous major election year . And political advertising revenue grew by 31 % during this two-year period . ( Retransmission fee numbers are not reported separately for all five companies , though data for the industry overall show that this type of revenue has also been increasing rapidly . ) Since 2004 , these companies have more than doubled their broadcasting revenues , while their political advertising revenue has tripled .
The survey also found a widespread belief among LGBT adults that the Obama administration , and the Democratic Party , are generally supportive of LGBT people : 63 % said the Obama administration was generally friendly toward lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people ; while just 6 % said the administration was generally unfriendly ( 30 % said it was neutral ) . LGBT views of the administration track closely with views of the Democratic Party ( 57 % friendly ) . By contrast , 76 % of LGBT adults say the Republican Party is unfriendly toward lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people .
Familiarity with QAnon is also connected with the news Americans consume . Those who get their election and political news mainly from The New York Times ( 59 % ) , MSNBC ( 49 % ) or NPR ( 39 % ) are most likely to say they 've heard or read at least a little about QAnon . And 7 % of New York Times readers say they 've heard or read a lot – the highest share of any group . In contrast , roughly two-in-ten consumers whose main source of news is CNN ( 23 % ) or Fox News ( 19 % ) and around one-in-ten whose main news source is CBS ( 11 % ) or ABC ( 8 % ) say they have heard or read at least a little about the conspiracy theories .
About half ( 49 % ) of Israelis would like the Obama administration to be more involved , while 15 % would like it to play a smaller role and 29 % would like it to play the same role it has been playing in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . Opinions on this do not vary considerably between Israeli Arabs and Jews .
Nearly four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) identify as independents , 32 % as Democrats and 23 % as Republicans , based on aggregated data from 2014 . The share of self-described independents has risen nine points over the past decade , up from 30 % in 2004 . Over this period , the percentage of Republicans has fallen six points – from 29 % to 23 % – while the share of Democrats is little changed . ( Here is a timeline of party affiliation among the public since 1939 . )
There has been an overall increase in concern about the problems of crime , corrupt officials and poor quality schools in the emerging and developing nations surveyed in 2007 and 2014 . For instance , in 2007 , a median of 64 % said crime was a very big problem across those 20 countries , but in 2014 , 74 % do . An almost identical change has occurred for the problem of corruption . And in 2007 , a median of only 38 % across these countries named poor quality schools as a big concern . Now , about half say this .
Overall , black immigrants earn college degrees at a slightly lower rate than Americans in general , but the share of foreign-born blacks from Africa with a college degree is higher than that of the overall U.S. population . About one-quarter ( 26 % ) of foreign-born blacks ages 25 and older had at least a bachelor 's degree in 2013 , which falls somewhat below that of the overall U.S. population , at 30 % . However , black immigrants ages 25 and older from Africa have high levels of educational attainment – 35 % have a college degree , a higher share than Americans overall .
Republicans hold wide advantages in party identification among several groups of voters , including white men without a college degree , people living in rural communities in the South and those who frequently attend religious services . Democrats hold formidable advantages among a contrasting set of voters , such as black women , residents of urban communities in the Northeast and people with no religious affiliation .
Significant shares also assert they face challenges separating the truth from false information when they are listening to elected officials and using social media . Some 64 % say it is hard to tell the difference between what is true and not true when they hear elected officials ; 48 % say the same thing about information they encounter on social media .
With the presidential election behind them , Americans have turned their attention back to the nation 's economy . The economy was by far the public 's top news story last week . Fully 56 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely last week , and as many as 43 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . In particular , Americans are beginning to focus more closely on the problems facing the U.S. auto industry .
The protests in Turkey were covered extensively in social media , but for the Turkish people , traditional media sources were the most common ways of accessing news about the events . Around nine-in-ten ( 89 % ) got information about the protests from national TV , with 78 % citing international or satellite TV and 73 % utilizing newspapers . Roughly half ( 49 % ) say they accessed social networking sites for news about the protests , with a nearly equal number ( 46 % ) saying they did not use these non-traditional sources . Radio was also less popular than TV and newspapers . Only 31 % say they obtained information about the protests from online news groups , blogs or photo sites .
As global competition between the U.S. and China intensifies , people in both countries view one another warily . Today , 45 % of Chinese see U.S. power and influence as posing a major threat to their country , up from 39 % in 2013 . In America , more than half of adults ( 55 % ) have an unfavorable view of China and just 37 % give China a favorable rating . While half of Chinese see the U.S. favorably , 52 % see the U.S. as trying to prevent China from becoming as powerful .
Scientists have , at best , mixed views about the impact of the research enterprise on four areas of government regulations . A majority of AAAS scientists ( 58 % ) say that the best scientific information guides government regulations about new drug and medical treatments at least most of the time , while about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say such information guides regulations only some of the time or never . Views about the impact of scientific information on food safety regulations are more mixed with 46 % saying the best information guides regulations always or most of the time and a slightly larger share ( 52 % ) saying it does so only some of the time or never . Scientists are largely pessimistic that the best information guides regulations when it comes to clean air and water regulations or land use regulations : 72 % and 84 % , respectively , say this occurs only some of the time or never .
NATO recommends that member countries commit 2 % of their gross domestic product to defense expenditures . Yet just four out of 28 member countries meet this threshold . The U.S. dedicates the greatest share of its GDP to defense spending ( 3.57 % ) , followed by Greece ( 2.36 % ) , the UK ( 2.12 % ) and Estonia ( 2.08 % ) . At the other end of the spectrum , Slovenia , Spain , Belgium and Luxembourg all dedicate less than 1 % of their GDP to defense .
Overall , 41 % of adults say recent protests related to racial inequality have received too much attention from news organizations , while 36 % say they have received the right amount and 23 % say they have received too little . By comparison , larger shares of Americans say news organizations have paid the right amount of attention to two other major stories this year : the coronavirus outbreak ( 46 % ) and the presidential election ( 58 % ) .
About eight-in-ten Americans say they understand the risks and challenges of police work , but 86 % of police say the public does not understand . This is one of several areas where the views of police and those of the public diverge significantly . For example , while half of the public says the country still needs to make changes to give blacks equal rights with whites , this view is shared by just 16 % of police . Law enforcement officers and the public are broadly in agreement on other issues , such as making private gun sales and gun show sales subject to background checks .
Overall , 71 % of Americans said that any voter should have the option to vote early or absentee without having to document a reason , including 60 % of those living in states that do not have early voting , no-excuse absentee voting or voting by mail . Three-quarters of those living in states that had such voting accommodations said any voter should have the option of voting early or absentee without needing a reason . As with some other attitudes , there are partisan differences : 83 % of Democrats across the country think voters should be able to vote early or absentee without an excuse , compared with 57 % of Republicans .
Roughly four-in-ten adults ( 41 % ) say they are very worried about climate change when they think about the future . Young adults are significantly more concerned about this than their older counterparts : 52 % of those ages 18 to 29 are very worried , compared with 41 % of those ages 30 to 49 and 37 % of those 50 and older .
Among supporters of the health care bills , 86 % say expanding health coverage to the uninsured is a major reason for their support and 84 % cite assuring that no one is denied coverage because they have pre-existing conditions as a major reason . About seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say the current system costs too much and 64 % say insurance companies doing a bad job are major reasons for their support .
Almost all of the quiz-takers ( 94 % ) say they have a library card , compared with 61 % of the general population , and 87 % have visited a library in the past year . Even more notably , 88 % have used a public library website in the past year—almost three times the rate of the Americans population overall ( 30 % ) . This is probably due to a basic self-selection bias : In general , people who are highly engaged with libraries are more likely to take a `` library user type '' quiz in the first place .
For news about politics and government , social media may be for the Millennial generation what local TV is for the Baby Boomer generation . Six-in-ten ( 61 % ) online Millennials say they get political news on Facebook in a given week , a much larger percentage than any other source for news . That 's a stark contrast to internet-using Baby Boomers , for whom local TV tops the list . These trends also reflect a major shift taking place in the news world , as social networking sites increasingly become an integral part of Americans ' news experience .
That represents a shift from four years ago , when far more wanted Obama than Republican leaders to take the lead ( 49 % to 30 % ) . It also is a sharp contrast with the public 's views after the 2006 election – ahead of President George W. Bush 's final two years in office – when by 51 % to 29 % , more preferred Democratic leaders than President Bush to take the lead in solving the nation 's problems .
Besides speaking Spanish to their children , Hispanic parents can pass on the language by regularly encouraging their children to speak it . About 70 % of all Hispanic parents say they provide such encouragement often , but again , successive generations are less likely than immigrant parents to say they do this .
Since the end of the Great Recession , the growth in the number of students with unauthorized immigrant parents has been entirely due to a broader increase in the number of children born in the U.S . The number of students who are unauthorized immigrants themselves ( and their share of the total ) has declined . States in the West and Southwest tend to have the highest shares of K-12 students with unauthorized immigrant parents . In six states , the share is 10 % or more : Nevada ( 17.6 % ) ranked first , followed by Texas ( 13.4 % ) , California ( 12.3 % ) , Arizona ( 12.2 % ) , Colorado ( 10.2 % ) and New Mexico ( 10.1 % ) . California and Texas had about the same share of students with unauthorized immigrant parents in 2012 , but by 2014 , California 's share had dropped below that of Texas . At the other end of the spectrum , the share of students with unauthorized immigrant parents was less than 1 % in six states , mainly in the Midwest and Northeast .
Currently , 44 % name Obama as their first or second choice for having done the best job of any president of their lifetimes , while 33 % name Clinton , 32 % Reagan and 19 % Trump . In 2011 , 49 % said Clinton had been one of the top two presidents , compared with 34 % who cited Reagan and 20 % who mentioned Obama .
Young women , those 18 - 24 , experience certain severe types of harassment at disproportionately high levels : 26 % of these young women have been stalked online , and 25 % were the target of online sexual harassment . In addition , they do not escape the heightened rates of physical threats and sustained harassment common to their male peers and young people in general . Overall , men are somewhat more likely than women to experience at least one of the elements of online harassment , 44 % vs. 37 % . In terms of specific experiences , men are more likely than women to encounter name-calling , embarrassment , and physical threats .
Shortly before the outbreak , about four-in-ten Latinos ( 38 % ) said they had experienced discrimination in the 12 months prior to the December 2019 survey , such as being criticized for speaking Spanish in public or being told to go back to their home country . At the same time , a smaller share ( 30 % ) of Latinos said someone had expressed support for them because of their Latino background . More than a quarter ( 28 % ) of Hispanics said they had experienced another kind of discrimination or been treated unfairly due to their background . Meanwhile , about a fifth said they had been called offensive names ( 21 % ) , been criticized for speaking Spanish in public ( 20 % ) or been told to go back to their home country ( 19 % ) .
Conservative Republicans are much more likely than any other group to say that the most positive thing the media do is report the news ; 41 % said this , at least 12 percentage points higher than any other group . Nearly four-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 38 % ) , on the other hand , highlight the public service aspect of the news media , about twice the share of conservative Republicans ( 18 % ) and higher than any other group .
The Pew Research Center survey , conducted May 12 - 18 among 2,002 adults , finds that partisans are as divided on this issue as ever : Today , 65 % of Democrats and an identical percentage of independents favor gay marriage ; only about one third ( 34 % ) of Republicans do so . Growing shares of all three groups support same-sex marriage , yet the differences between Democrats and Republicans are as wide today as they were a decade ago . However , with same-sex marriage legal in 36 states ( and the District of Columbia ) and the possibility of a Supreme Court decision on its nationwide status , Republicans ( 72 % ) are just as likely as Democrats ( 72 % ) and independents ( 74 % ) to say that it is `` inevitable '' that same-sex marriage will be legally recognized .
U.S. fathers today are spending more time caring for their children than they did a half-century ago . Still , most ( 63 % ) say they spend too little time with their kids and a much smaller share ( 36 % ) say they spend the right amount of time with them , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in August and September 2017 . Moms , by comparison , still do more of the child care and are more likely than dads to say they are satisfied with the amount of time they spend with their kids . About half ( 53 % ) say this , while only 35 % say they spend too little time with their children , according to the survey .
According to elderly parents , they are most often the ones who initiate these types of conversations . Among those who say they have discussed these topics with their children , 70 % say they raised the issues while only 10 % say their children initiated the conversations .
Fully 86 % of parents of a child age 5 to 11 say they limit the time of day or length of time their child can use screens , while eight-in-ten say they take away their child 's smartphone or internet privileges as punishment . About three-quarters of parents of a child age 5 to 11 say they check the websites this child visits or the mobile apps they use ( 75 % ) and use parental controls to restrict how much this child uses screens ( 72 % ) .
Closer to home , a special follow-up poll found America 's favorable rating tumbling in Mexico in response to Arizona 's enactment of a law aimed at dealing with illegal immigration by giving police increased powers to stop and detain people who are suspected of being in the country illegally . Only 44 % of Mexicans gave the U.S. a favorable rating following the signing of the bill , compared with 62 % who did so before the bill passed .
Brazilians offer favorable opinions of the U.S. and China , their country 's two biggest trading partners , although America 's image is somewhat more positive . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) give the U.S. a favorable rating ; 29 % have an unfavorable opinion . Looking at the other Latin American nations in the survey , 56 % of Mexicans offer a favorable opinion , while 35 % have a negative view of their
By a ratio of nearly four-to-one , adults in this country say that American parents are placing too little ( 56 % ) rather than too much ( 15 % ) pressure on students , with the remaining quarter ( 24 % ) saying that parents are exerting the right amount of pressure . Parents and non-parents feel roughly the same way about this question , the survey finds . So do Republicans and Democrats , blacks and whites , older adults and younger adults , people with low incomes and those with high incomes , and people with college degrees and those with a just a high school education or less . The only demographic gap in attitudes about this question — and it 's not especially wide — comes on the gender front . More men ( 62 % ) than women ( 51 % ) say parents are n't being tough enough .
The COVID-19 economic downturn has made it harder for some Americans to pay their monthly bills . Black ( 48 % ) and Hispanic adults ( 44 % ) were more likely than white adults ( 26 % ) to say they `` can not pay some bills or can only make partial payments on some of them this month , '' according to the April survey . For Hispanics , this was a considerably greater share than the 28 % who said they have trouble paying their bills in a typical month .
As the People 's Republic of China celebrates the 70th anniversary of its founding , it gets mixed reviews from people around the world , according to Pew Research Center 's latest Global Attitudes survey . A median of 40 % across the 34 countries surveyed have a favorable opinion of China , compared with a median of 41 % who have an unfavorable opinion .
Around a quarter of adults ( 23 % ) say it is most likely that the current strain of coronavirus was developed intentionally in a lab ; another 6 % say it was most likely made accidentally in a lab . A quarter say they are n't sure where the virus originated .
And voters who support both Trump and Biden say their differences extend beyond policies to disagreements over core values . Overwhelming shares of voters who support each candidate say that , when asked to think about those who favor their opposing candidate , they not only have different views on politics and policies , they also have `` fundamental disagreements on core American values and goals . '' Roughly eight-in-ten of those who support Biden ( 80 % ) and Trump ( 77 % ) say they fundamentally disagree about core values ; only about one-in-five say their differences are limited to politics and policies .
This comparison of hundreds of individual survey questions , with and without the offline population , found that for most of the topics studied by Pew Research Center , the size of the bias caused by excluding the non-Web respondents is quite small . Across 406 separate survey items , only nine yielded estimates that differed by 5 or more percentage points . More than two-thirds of the 406 items yielded estimates with a 0 or 1 point difference . This is a consequence of the fact that the non-Web survey group is a small share of the total population , as well as the fact that the size of the differences between the Web and non-Web groups tends to be relatively modest on most questions .
A median of 47 % across the 38 countries surveyed have a favorable opinion of China , while 37 % express an unfavorable view . Majorities or pluralities in 24 countries give China a positive rating .
At least six-in-ten Americans across demographic groups say they feel their information is less secure . However , there are some small differences in shares who say this by race and ethnicity , age , education , income , and partisanship . White adults are more likely to say that their information is less secure today than those of other racial and ethnic groups , with about seven-in-ten White adults ( 71 % ) saying this compared with about six-in-ten of those who identify as part of other racial and ethnic groups ( 62 % each of Black , Hispanic and Asian adults ) . Older respondents are also more likely than younger adults to say their information is less secure ; 76 % of those ages 65 and older say they feel their personal information is less secure now than it was five years ago .
Strong majorities of independent voters express positive views of John McCain ( 64 % ) and Barack Obama ( 62 % ) . No other candidate is viewed favorably by a majority of independent voters .
Presented with a number of reasons why they might use voice assistants , 55 % of users say `` a major reason '' they use the assistants is that these applications allow them to interact with their devices without using their hands . Smaller shares say that they use voice assistants because they are fun ( 23 % cite this as a `` major reason '' ) , because speaking to the assistant feels more natural than typing ( 22 % ) , or because these programs are easier for children to use ( 14 % ) .
Germans and Americans agree foreign relations will change once the coronavirus crisis is over , but they differ somewhat over how things will change . Around four-in-ten Germans ( 42 % ) say countries will cooperate more with each other after the crisis , while a smaller share ( 31 % ) say countries will increase their focus on national interests . Americans are more divided on this question : 35 % say countries will cooperate more , while 29 % say nations will focus more on their own interests . In both countries , only around a third or fewer say everything will be the same as before the coronavirus crisis .
Among other economic sectors , views of news about real estate values continue to be among the most positive . About one-in-four ( 27 % ) are hearing mostly good news about real estate values and 23 % are hearing mostly bad news , while 40 % say the news is a mix .
Fully 85 % of foreign-born self-identified Hispanics say that when they were growing up , their parents often encouraged them to speak Spanish . But that share falls to 68 % among the U.S.-born second generation and to just 26 % of the third or higher generation Hispanics .
There is broad support – across racial groups and among members of both political parties – for the idea of police officers being outfitted with body cameras to record their encounters with people . Fully 87 % , including 90 % of blacks and 85 % of whites , think it is a good idea for police to wear body cameras .
A global median of 70 % say China plays a more important role in the world than it did 10 years ago . Russia is a distant second in this assessment , with only 42 % saying that country is more important than it was a decade ago . A median of only 31 % believe the U.S. plays a more important role than it did a decade ago – less than half of the share who say this of China . Only 8 % of those surveyed say China plays a less important role than it did a decade ago , the lowest share across the seven countries tested . In the U.S. , 72 % believe China is more important now than it was a decade ago , while only 31 % of Americans say the same about their own country .
Of the 20 countries and territories worldwide with the highest median ages , 14 are in Europe – led by Italy , Portugal and Germany . In fact , Italy trails only Japan when it comes to the world 's highest median age and the share of those ages 60 and older .
Between 2004 and 2016 , foreign graduates with master 's degrees far outnumbered all other degree holders under OPT , making up 57 % ( 840,800 ) of all graduates in the program . The number of master 's degree holders also grew the most by far during the same time period , rising from 39,500 in 2004 to 172,900 in 2016 – a 337 % increase . By comparison , the number of OPT approvals for doctorate degree holders grew by 187 % , bachelor 's by 115 % and associate degree holders by just 21 % .
The new survey also finds that , no matter who wins on Nov. 8 , few voters anticipate feeling excited about the outcome . Just 11 % of all registered voters say they would be excited if Trump won , 26 % say they would be relieved , while a majority says they would be disappointed ( 34 % ) or angry ( 25 % ) .
Far more voters expect voting to be difficult this year than in 2018 , according to a survey of registered voters conducted July 27 to Aug. 2 . Around half of registered voters ( 49 % ) said they expect voting to be very or somewhat difficult this year , while the other half ( 50 % ) expect it to be very or somewhat easy . That represents a major change from October 2018 , when just 15 % of voters said they expected voting in that year 's midterms to be difficult and 85 % said they expected it to be easy .
The most common arrangement for older U.S. adults , however , is to live as a couple without any other children or relatives . Almost half of U.S. adults ages 60 and older live in such households ( 46 % ) , compared with a global average of 31 % . Conversely , older Americans are much less likely to live with a wider circle of relatives . Just 6 % of older U.S. adults live in extended-family households , compared with 38 % of adults ages 60 and older globally .
While the issue of gun control remains divisive , there are clear areas of agreement when it comes to a number of gun policy proposals . Fully 85 % of Americans favor making private gun sales and sales at gun shows subject to background checks , with comparable support from Republicans , Democrats and independents . Similarly , 80 % support laws to prevent mentally ill people from purchasing guns , with broad support across party lines .
In the spring of 2011 , most Japanese seemed confident that despite the destructive force of the March 11th earthquake and tsunami their country would rally as a nation . Indeed , a majority ( 58 % ) predicted the twin disaster would actually make their country stronger . A year later , that sense of resilience has faded . Just 39 % now believe Japan has been strengthened by the earthquake and tsunami , compared with 47 % who say the disasters have weakened the country and 12 % who believe the country has been unaffected .
3 Americans are more likely to prioritize greater cooperation with Germany than Germans are to prioritize increased cooperation with the U.S. About seven-in-ten in the U.S. ( 69 % ) want more cooperation with Germany , compared with half of Germans ( 50 % ) who want more cooperation with the U.S . Instead , Germans are most likely to say they want greater cooperation with France ( 77 % ) and Japan ( 69 % ) among the countries tested . Germans are much more likely than Americans to say they want more cooperation with Russia ( 66 % vs. 35 % ) . And 52 % of Americans want to cooperate less with Russia .
Republicans are no more likely to consider their vote as `` against '' the president than they were in early 2010 ( 46 % today , 42 % in February 2010 ) . But Republicans typically vote at higher rates than Democrats in midterm elections . Democratic voters ' lack of enthusiasm for Obama may complicate Democrats ' turnout efforts .
Sizable minorities of cultural Catholics also participate in some of the church 's rituals . For instance , about a third of cultural Catholics ( 32 % ) say they attend Mass at least once a year , and roughly a quarter ( 26 % ) say they receive Holy Communion at least sometimes when they attend Mass . A third ( 33 % ) say they gave something up or did something extra for Lent this year , and about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say it would be important to them to receive the sacrament of the anointing of the sick ( sometimes part of `` last rites '' ) if they were seriously ill .
Among adults under age 30 , 70 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , as do nearly two-thirds of adults in their 30s and 40s ( 64 % ) . More than half of those in their 50s and early 60s ( 54 % ) and those ages 65 and older ( 55 % ) say the same .
These differences also extend to more specific incidents of racial discrimination . For example , blacks who have attended college are more likely than those who have not to say they have been met with suspicion or that someone has questioned their intelligence . Some 55 % of blacks with at least some college education say that in the past 12 months someone has acted as if they were suspicious of them because of their race or ethnicity , while a similar share ( 52 % ) say people have treated them as if they were n't smart . Among blacks with a high school diploma or less , those shares are lower , 38 % and 37 % respectively .
5 Voters are skeptical that either Clinton or Trump will repair the country 's political divisions . No matter who wins on Tuesday , a strong majority of voters believe the nation 's polarization will remain a reality . Overall , 41 % of voters say they expect political divisions in the country to increase if Clinton wins , while 48 % say divisions will stay about the same and just 9 % say they will decrease , according to an October survey . A majority of voters ( 55 % ) expect divisions to increase if Trump wins , while 26 % say they will stay about the same and 17 % say they will decrease .
Among foreign policy experts , a minority ( 30 % ) supports a system of government in which experts make decisions according to what they think is best for the country . Public opinion on the benefits of government by experts largely mirrors the views of these experts . A median of 42 % think it would be a good way to run their country . However , support varies considerably across Europe , ranging from a high of 68 % in Hungary to a low of 31 % in Greece . The U.S. stands out as the country in which the public is most likely to see this option as very bad for the country ( 31 % ) .
The share of Christians in South Korea ( 29 % ) is much smaller than the share of Christians among Korean Americans living in the U.S. Nearly three-quarters of Korean Americans ( 71 % ) say they are Christian , including 61 % who are Protestant and 10 % who are Catholic .
Smart speakers such as Amazon Echo or Google Home have gained popularity over the last several years , and consumer experts found that these devices were especially popular with holiday season gift buyers last year . But even as some Americans are integrating these devices into their homes , many owners express concerns over data collection and personalization , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 .
In the economic realm , most see rewards and opportunities going primarily to those at the top . Majorities in all three nations say the gap between rich and poor has increased over the past five years . And when asked why so many people lack jobs in their country , the top reason given is that many jobs go only to people with connections .
1 40 % of internet users have personally experienced online harassment . We defined online harassment as having had at least one of six incidents personally occur to someone : name-calling , efforts to be purposefully embarrassed , physical threats , harassment over a sustained period of time , sexual harassment , and stalking . ( Respondents were separately asked if they had witnessed any of these behaviors occur to others online ; 73 % said they had ) . Online harassment fell into two distinct , but frequently overlapping , categories of severity – `` less severe '' harassment was composed of name-calling and embarrassment ; 22 % of internet users exclusively experienced this kind of harassment . Another 18 % of internet users experienced any of the `` more severe '' types of harassment , including physical threats , sustained harassment , stalking , and sexual harassment .
The Center survey found broad acceptance of evolution across publics . A median of 74 % say humans and other living things have evolved over time , while a median of just 21 % say humans and other living things have existed in their present form since the beginning of time . Eight-in-ten or more in Japan , Spain , Sweden , the Czech Republic , France and Germany say humans and other living things have evolved over time , as do majorities elsewhere . Malaysia is the only public in which the balance of opinion is the opposite ( 43 % vs. 55 % saying humans and other living things have existed in their present form since the beginning of time ) .
Two-thirds of U.S. adults say the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of global climate change . Similar shares say the government is doing too little to protect water ( 68 % ) and air quality ( 67 % ) , while majorities say the same when it comes to protecting animals and their habitats ( 62 % ) and protecting open lands in the national parks ( 55 % ) .
The 2009 poll revealed big improvements in America 's image in many other nations as well , especially in Western Europe . Indeed , France and Germany were the only countries where overall ratings for the U.S. improved more than in Indonesia . But — with the exception of Indonesia — there was generally much less improvement in the predominantly Muslim nations surveyed . U.S. favorability also rose in Egypt ( from 22 % favorable to 27 % ) and Jordan ( from 19 % to 25 % ) , although in both countries only about one-in-four respondents offered a positive assessment of the U.S . In Pakistan , the Palestinian territories , and Turkey there was essentially no change , and positive opinions about the U.S. remained rare .
Even though the unemployment rate has fallen sharply since the 2010 midterm elections and a host of other economic measures have improved significantly , it has not done much to brighten the public 's mood on what it considers to be the most important voting issue . While the economy gets better marks than in the last two elections , that is n't saying much . Just 21 % of Americans rated the economy as excellent or good in a mid-October survey ( compared with 13 % in September 2012 and 8 % in October 2010 ) . And , in this election cycle , fewer Americans expect continued improvement with just 27 % believing economic conditions will be better a year from now .
A majority of Americans ( 54 % ) say that gun ownership in this country does more to protect people from becoming victims of crime , while 40 % say it does more to put people 's safety at risk . These findings are largely unchanged from December , when a 57 % majority said owning guns does more to protect people from crime .
Labor market activity—gauged by the share of persons employed or actively seeking work—diminished in the face of the recession . Among all persons , labor force participation fell from 66.3 % in the fourth quarter of 2007 to 66.0 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , a decline of 0.3 percentage points . The greatest drop in labor force participation was registered by foreign-born Hispanics ( 0.8 percentage points ) and Asian workers ( 0.9 percentage points ) .
When it comes to defense spending , differences between Americans and Germans also emerge . When asked whether the U.S. 's European allies should increase , decrease or maintain their defense spending , half of Americans say that spending levels should remain the same . This marks a notable shift in view from 2017 , when 45 % of Americans felt their allies in Europe should dedicate more resources to national defense . Germans view their country 's defense spending differently . The public is divided on whether to increase or maintain current levels of spending on national defense , with about four-in-ten taking each view . Like in the U.S. , views on this issue in Germany have changed since 2017 . At that time , about half of Germans were content with their country 's defense spending , while about a third felt it should be increased .
Internet use is most widespread in Jordan and Lebanon , where 87 % of adults in each country go online . About eight-in-ten adults also go online in the Latin American countries of Mexico ( 81 % ) , Colombia ( 80 % ) and Venezuela ( 77 % ) .
Both Univision and Telemundo have local affiliate stations that carry their own original news programming . In 2018 , average viewership for Univision affiliates dropped in three key time slots . Univision affiliates ' late night news ( 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. ) showed a drop of 17 % , while evening news ( 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. ) viewership for Univision affiliates saw a smaller drop of 5 % . Morning news for Univision affiliates , which has far lower viewership overall , dropped by 11 % . Average viewership for Telemundo affiliates during these time slots was more varied , with evening news dropping 6 % , late night news remaining about steady , and morning news seeing a steep decline of 70 % in average audience .
About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) African Americans say it is especially important to teach children religious faith , with 41 % ranking faith as one of the three most important values to teach . By contrast , about half of whites ( 51 % ) and Hispanics ( 54 % ) say teaching children religious faith is important , and just 30 % of whites and 26 % of Hispanics say it is among the most important values to teach children .
A median of 60 % across the member countries say the U.S. would use military force to defend a NATO country that was subject to a Russian incursion . Only 29 % across these countries believe the U.S. would not defend the country that was attacked .
But opinions vary by religion , ethnicity and education : Hispanics , white evangelical Protestants and those who never attended college are more likely to say children are better off with a parent at home . College-educated women are among the most likely to say children are just as well off if their parents work outside the home .
The Census Bureau statistics indicate that demographic change is percolating upward through the nation 's age groups , starting with the youngest ones . In fact , the bureau estimates indicate that 50.3 % of children younger than 5 were racial or ethnic minorities in 2015 .
The Trump administration and governments in Ottawa and Mexico City have indicated they will renegotiate the trilateral , quarter-century-old North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) . While the existing accord enjoys the support of roughly three-quarters of the Canadian public and six-in-ten Mexicans , it is viewed less favorably in the United States , with Republicans far less supportive than Democrats , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of all three countries . About half of Americans ( 51 % ) say NAFTA has been a good thing for the U.S. , including 11 % who say it has been very good . That compares with 74 % of Canadians who say the agreement has been good for Canada , including 20 % who say it has been very good . Among Mexicans , 60 % see NAFTA as being good for their country , including 10 % who hold that view strongly . These differences in views may , in part , reflect the fact that both Canada and Mexico run merchandise trade surpluses with the U.S . In 2016 , the U.S. ran a collective $ 74 billion trade goods deficit with its two NAFTA partners .
While the Baltic countries have a substantial Christian population , only Lithuania and Latvia have large numbers of Catholics , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2015 and 2016 . Furthermore , the Catholics in these two nations are less religious than Catholics in neighboring countries , such as Poland . Lithuania is overwhelmingly Christian ( 93 % ) , and three-quarters of its adults identify as Catholic . The adult population of Latvia also is mostly Christian ( 77 % ) , but the share of Catholics in the country is smaller ( 23 % ) . Substantial portions of Latvia 's population are Orthodox Christians ( 31 % ) or Lutherans ( 19 % ) . By contrast , about half of Estonians identify as Christian ( 51 % ) , and only 1 % of the country 's adults say they are Catholic . As with Latvia , numerous Estonians are Orthodox ( 25 % ) or Lutheran ( 20 % ) . Most other Estonians ( 45 % ) – and about one-in-five Latvians ( 21 % ) – are religiously unaffiliated ( those who identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' ) .
However , there is as much ideological uniformity on the left as the right . The share of Democrats holding consistently liberal views has grown steadily over the past 20 years , quadrupling from 5 % in 1994 to 23 % today . Social issues like homosexuality and immigration that once drove deep divides within the Democratic Party are now areas of relative consensus . And Democrats have become more uniformly critical of business and more supportive of government .
The public is divided on how much progress has been made toward solving the major problems facing the country over the course of Obama 's presidency . Roughly a third ( 35 % ) say Obama has made progress toward solving major problems , while a similar share ( 32 % ) says he tried but failed . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) believe he has made things worse ; just 9 % say he has not addressed the major problems facing the country .
Among the legislators ' original tweets relevant to Trump 's visit , the most mentioned topic was the impact of a potential U.S.-UK trade deal on the National Health Service ( NHS ) , the publicly funded , single-payer national health care system .
In many countries surveyed , the United States is viewed as an important ally . In Israel , 82 % name the U.S. as the country they can most rely on as a dependable ally in the future . Across the Asia-Pacific region , around two-thirds or more cite the U.S. as a top ally in Japan ( 63 % ) , the Philippines ( 64 % ) and South Korea ( 71 % ) . In fact , in every country surveyed , more name the U.S. than China – though opinion is relatively divided in several countries .
Americans ' perceptions of China 's military strength relative to other major military powers have also fallen . Just 6 % of Americans now view China as the world 's top military power – down from 12 % in 2016 – though three-in-ten still see China as the leading economic power . And only 4 % of Americans think a situation in which China is the world 's leading power would be better for the world than one in which the U.S. is dominant .
Republicans are far more likely than Democrats to express skepticism that social media companies could properly determine which posts should be labeled in this way . More than eight-in-ten Republicans say they have no ( 50 % ) or not much ( 34 % ) confidence regarding social media companies ' ability to determine which posts on their platforms should be labeled . Beyond that , there are notable differences along partisan and ideological lines . Six-in-ten conservative Republicans say they have no confidence in social media companies ' ability to determine which posts on their platforms should be labeled as misleading , compared with 34 % of moderate or liberal Republicans and 11 % each of conservative or moderate Democrats and liberal Democrats .
Christians , Muslims , Hindus , Buddhists , Jews and the religiously unaffiliated around the world are distributed in different ways across household types and sizes . And there are noticeable variations among these groups within regions and even within single countries . 1 Worldwide , Muslims live in the biggest households . The average Muslim lives in a home of 6.4 people , followed by Hindus ( 5.7 ) , Christians ( 4.5 ) , Buddhists ( 3.9 ) , the religiously unaffiliated – also known as `` nones '' ( 3.7 ) – and Jews ( 3.7 ) . In the 15 countries in the study that have the world 's biggest households , Islam is the largest religion in all but one ( Benin ) , and these nations are all in Africa , the Middle East and Asia . Christians and the religiously unaffiliated are the largest groups in the 15 countries with the smallest households , which are all in Europe , with the exception of South Korea . For all people , households are biggest in sub-Saharan Africa ( 6.9 ) and smallest in Europe ( 3.1 ) .
Americans and Europeans are looking inward . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) believe the U.S. should deal with its own problems and let other countries deal with their problems as best they can ; just 37 % think the U.S. should help other countries solve problems . On balance , Europeans are also focused on their own challenges , although half or more in Spain , Germany and Sweden want to help other nations . While this nation-first sentiment has seen little change in recent years in Europe , it has grown by 11 percentage points since 2010 in the U.S .
And as May elections for the European Parliament approach , attitudes toward the EU-wide legislative body are mixed , although overall ratings are slightly more favorable ( a median of 50 % ) than unfavorable ( 45 % ) . The UK and Greece once again stand out for their negative assessments , while Germans and the French are almost evenly divided .
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of people in China say air pollution is a big problem , including 35 % who regard it as a very big problem , according to our spring 2015 global survey . About the same number of Chinese ( 75 % ) say water pollution is a very or moderately big problem , and of 15 issues tested , both rank among the public 's top concerns .
This report examines American teens ' digital romantic practices . It covers the results of a national Pew Research Center survey of teens ages 13 to 17 ; throughout the report , the word `` teens '' refers to those in that age bracket , unless otherwise specified . The survey was conducted online from Sept. 25 through Oct. 9 , 2014 , and Feb. 10 through March 16 , 2015 ; 16 online and in-person focus groups with teens were conducted in April 2014 and November 2014 . The main findings from this research include :
This stands in contrast with Latin America and Africa , where about six-in-ten people ( a median of 61 % and 59 % , respectively ) express serious concerns about the threat posed by global climate change . It ranks as the greatest threat in nearly every country in these two regions . Asians are also relatively concerned about climate change . With a median of 41 % voicing serious concern , the issue captures the top spot in half of the Asia-Pacific countries surveyed .
At the same time , Indians show little enthusiasm for expanding immigration into their country . Roughly three-in-ten Indians ( 29 % ) say their government should allow fewer immigrants , with an additional 16 % volunteering that there should be no immigration at all . Just 13 % think more immigration into India should be encouraged , and 11 % think immigration levels should stay about the same as they are now . In 2017 , just over 5 million people ( or less than 1 % of the population ) living in India were born in other countries , with most of them coming from neighboring Bangladesh , Pakistan and Nepal .
Among registered voters who say they would vote for Donald Trump , a large majority ( 76 % ) say that their choice of Trump is more a vote for Trump , while just 24 % say their choice is more of a vote against Biden . Biden supporters , by contrast , are far more likely than Trump supporters to see their vote as a vote against the opponent : 67 % say their choice is more of a vote against Trump , while only about half as many ( 33 % ) say it is more of a vote for Biden .
President George W. Bush is losing ground with the public in his efforts to build support for private retirement accounts in Social Security . Despite Bush 's intensive campaign to promote the idea , the percentage of Americans who say they favor private accounts has tumbled to 46 % in Pew 's latest nationwide survey , down from 54 % in December and 58 % in September . Support has declined as the public has become increasingly aware of the president 's plan . More than four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they have heard a lot about the proposal , nearly double the number who said that in December ( 23 % ) .
Many people around the world think it is necessary to believe in God to be a moral person , according to surveys in 39 countries by the Pew Research Center . However , this view is more common in poorer countries than in wealthier ones . In 22 of 39 countries surveyed , clear majorities say it is necessary to believe in God to be moral and have good values . This position is highly prevalent , if not universal , in Africa and the Middle East . At least three-quarters in all six countries surveyed in Africa say that faith in God is essential to morality . In the Middle East , roughly seven-in-ten or more agree in Egypt , Jordan , Turkey , the Palestinian territories , Tunisia and Lebanon . Across the two regions , only in Israel does a majority think it is not necessary to believe in God to be an upright person .
Men are more likely than women to say these three trends have hurt them personally . Some 36 % of men point to outsourcing as having a detrimental effect on their job or career , compared with 24 % of women . Men also are more likely than women to say the growing number of immigrant workers has harmed their careers ( 26 % vs. 17 % ) and that having more foreign-made products sold in the U.S. has been a negative ( 24 % vs. 15 % ) . Racial and ethnic differences emerge as well . For example , a quarter of whites and 21 % of blacks say the growing number of immigrants has hurt their job or career , compared with just 11 % of Hispanics . Among whites , those without a college degree are far more likely than those with more education to say that increased outsourcing of jobs to other countries ( 39 % vs. 24 % ) and a rise in imports ( 30 % vs. 13 % ) have hurt their job or career . When it comes to the impact of immigration , 42 % of whites with no college experience say it has hurt them personally ; 26 % of those with some college and an even smaller share of white college graduates ( 12 % ) say the growing number of immigrants has hurt their job or career . ( Educational differences among blacks and Hispanics can not be analyzed due to small sample sizes . )
Another outcome is that both the military and the general public agree that Americans do n't understand military life . More than eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) of post-9/11 veterans say the public does not understand well or at all the problems that those in the military face . That view is shared by 76 % of pre-9/11 veterans and 71 % of the public .
Among both Republicans and Democrats , however , majorities place the U.S. among the greatest nations , rather than saying it stands above others or that other nations are superior . In the new survey , 60 % of Democrats and 52 % of Republicans say the U.S. is one of the greatest countries in the world , again little changed from 2015 .
Despite the declining share in some countries that view the Islamic Republic as a threat , some of its neighbors thought its influence was on the rise . When asked in 2017 , a majority of Lebanese and Jordanians and more than half of Israelis said they believed Iran played a more important role in the Middle East at that time than it did 10 years prior . Sizable shares in Tunisia and Turkey agreed ; in both countries people were more likely to say that Iran 's stature in the region had grown than they were to say it stayed the same or declined .
Although the public is somewhat ambivalent on whether colleges and universities are responsible for preparing the American workforce , a majority ( 67 % ) say a four-year degree prepares someone at least somewhat well for a well-paying job in today 's economy . Democrats and Democratic leaners were more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners to say this ( 73 % vs. 62 % ) in the 2016 survey , though Republican views on how colleges and universities affect the country have changed dramatically over the past two years .
About a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) says they followed reports about the condition of the economy more closely than other top stories last week , while 21 % followed news about the swine flu most closely . According to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted May 21 - 24 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed the debate about how to defend the nation from terror most closely .
Overall , about one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed news about the floods in Pakistan very closely ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Partisans showed about the same level of interest . The floods made up 4 % of coverage this week .
On Iraq , India is the only country other than the U.S. in which a plurality ( 45 % ) believes the removal of Saddam from power has made the world a safer place , and Indians are even less likely than Americans to say the Iraq war made the world more dangerous . Indians , however , do not regret their country 's decision not to use force in Iraq – 75 % say their government did the right thing in abstaining from the U.S.-led coalition .
And while the UK and China rank in the top three positions across party lines , more Republicans ( 25 % ) than Democrats ( 5 % ) name Israel as a top foreign policy partner for the U.S . There are also significant partisan differences in opinion on views about Canada and Mexico .
In Germany , partisan gaps also emerge . Supporters of the CDU/CSU are on balance in favor of defense spending increases . However , supporters of the Greens express more skepticism , with only 28 % saying they want to raise defense spending . Members of the SPD fall in the middle , with 41 % saying Germany should increase defense spending .
Just 6 % of U.S. homeowners say they have already installed solar panels at home . Another 46 % say they have given serious thought to adding solar panels at their home in the past year . The share of homeowners considering getting solar panels is up from 40 % in 2016 and has especially increased among those living in the South Atlantic states ranging from Delaware to Florida . About half of homeowners in the South Atlantic states ( 51 % ) say they are considering installing solar panels , up 20 percentage points from 2016 . Homeowners in other Southern states ( the East and West South Central region ) tend to express more interest in installing solar panels ( 45 % in 2019 compared with 34 % in 2016 ) , though this 11 percentage point difference is not statistically significant . Just 3 % of Southern homeowners say they have solar panels at their residence , a similar share as in 2016 .
Certain groups of teachers are more likely than others to work a summer job outside the school system , including those with less teaching experience and who are younger – groups that tend to have lower salaries . Male teachers and teachers at the secondary level also are more likely than their female and primary level counterparts to take additional work outside of the classroom , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of NCES data for the 2015 - 16 school year , the most recent year with available data . Roughly one-third ( 32 % ) of teachers with one year or less of teaching experience had a non-school job over the summer break before the school year – a far larger share than that of public school teachers overall . By comparison , 20 % of teachers with two to four years of experience took on summer employment that year , as did 17 % of teachers with five to nine years of experience . Teachers younger than 30 are more likely to hold summer jobs than their older colleagues . About a quarter ( 26 % ) of teachers under 30 worked during the summer of 2015 , compared with 16 % of those ages 30 to 39 , 14 % of those 40 to 49 , and 12 % of those 50 and older .
A majority of all Hispanic adults identify as Catholic and a large majority of Hispanic Catholics speak Spanish fluently , according to our 2013 National Survey of Latinos . Eight-in-ten Hispanic Catholics use mostly Spanish or are bilingual . In fact , they are more likely to be Spanish speakers than non-Catholic Hispanics ( 68 % ) .
In fiscal 2017 , 179,049 high-skilled foreign workers received H-1B visas . As the nation 's biggest temporary employment visa program , H-1B visas accounted for about a quarter ( 23 % ) of all temporary visas for employment issued in 2017 . In all , more than 1.6 million H-1B visas were issued from fiscal years 2007 to 2017 . The denial rate of H-1B visa applications increased in 2019 under the Trump administration . Meanwhile , more H-1B visas went to immigrants with a U.S. master 's degree or higher . The administration has also said it plans to restrict work permits for spouses of H-1B holders .
The New York Times has the highest proportion of adults ages 18 to 29 who name it as their main source , at 29 % . Those ages 30 to 49 are most likely to name NPR ( 49 % ) .
Conservatives gravitate toward Fox News . A separate Pew Research report on polarization and media habits found that 47 % of consistent conservatives ( and 31 % of people with mostly conservative views ) cited Fox News as their main source for news about government and politics ; no other news source came close . And 88 % of consistent conservatives said they trusted Fox News – by far the highest level of trust by any ideological group of any single news source among the 36 we asked about .
Once Indians are on a social network , they tend to use them for staying in touch with family and friends ( 90 % of social networking users ) and sharing views about music and movies ( 87 % ) . They do not use these sites as often for sharing views about politics ( 35 % ) . However , we 've found similar patterns among other emerging and developing nations .
At least 778 executions took place last year in 22 countries , up from 682 in 2012 , according to Amnesty . Several countries , including Kuwait , Nigeria , Indonesia and Vietnam resumed use of the death penalty after several years without any executions .
Majorities in 18 of the 34 countries surveyed say that , in a family , men and women have about the same influence when it comes to making important decisions about how to raise children . Still , in nearly every country , far larger shares say women have more influence in this area than say men do . And in seven of the 34 countries – Lithuania , Greece , Lebanon , Slovakia , Israel , the Czech Republic and Turkey – majorities or pluralities say women in their country have more influence than men in making important decisions about raising children . Men and women generally agree in their assessments of who has more influence when it comes to decisions about how to raise children , but there are exceptions . For example , in Brazil , women ( 43 % ) are more likely than men ( 34 % ) to say women in their country have more influence in making important decisions in this area ; in turn , Brazilian men ( 61 % ) are more likely then Brazilian women ( 52 % ) to say both have about the same influence . Across most of the countries surveyed , majorities or pluralities say men and women have about the same influence when it comes to making important decisions about their family 's religious practices . There are a few exceptions to this pattern . In Sweden , Israel and Nigeria , similar shares say men and women have about the same influence as say men have more influence than women in this area . And in Lithuania , 37 % say men and women have the same influence and 41 % say women have more influence .
There are more than 250 million migrants worldwide , according to the latest data from the United Nations on the number of people living outside their birth countries in 2017 ( see this updated interactive graphic ) . Sub-Saharan African nations account for eight of the 10 fastest growing international migrant populations since 2010 . The number of migrants from each of these sub-Saharan countries grew by 50 % or more between 2010 and 2017 , significantly more than the 17 % worldwide average over the same period . At least a million sub-Saharan Africans have moved to Europe since 2010 . ( Read this new Pew Research Center report for more information about the educational backgrounds of sub-Saharan African immigrants in Europe and the U.S . )
Among Republicans , conservatives are 20 points more likely than moderates and liberals to say Trump does not have a responsibility to reduce his tax returns ( 86 % vs. 66 % ) . There is a more modest ideological gap among Democrats .
Users frequently contribute to crowdfunding projects as a way to help individuals in need . Fully 68 % of crowdfunding donors have contributed to a project to help someone facing some sort of hardship or financial challenge , making it the most common type of project of the five evaluated in this survey . In addition to these types of projects : Men and women differ in a number of ways when it comes to their use of crowdfunding platforms . Male donors are roughly twice as likely as female donors to have contributed to six or more projects , and are also nearly twice as likely to have contributed more than $ 100 to an individual project . And while women are more likely to contribute to a project to help someone in need , men are more likely to help fund new products or inventions , as well as projects for musicians or other creative artists . Younger men are especially interested in funding new products and inventions : 48 % of men ages 18 - 49 who have made a crowdfunding donation have contributed to this type of project .
As automation looms and more and more jobs are being shaped to accommodate the tech-saturated `` knowledge economy , '' 63 % of full- and part-time workers say they have taken steps in the past 12 months to upgrade their skills and knowledge .
Master 's and bachelor 's degrees are the most common degrees pursued by newly enrolled foreign students in the U.S .
These differences reflect a broader regional divide . New England residents are most likely to favor legalized abortion . Fully 75 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 20 % say abortions should be illegal in all or most cases . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) in the Pacific Coast region , and solid majorities in the Mid-Atlantic ( 61 % ) and Mountain West ( 59 % ) also favor legal abortion . At the other end of the spectrum , residents of the South Central states – ranging from Texas and Oklahoma to Alabama to Kentucky – express the least support for abortion . A majority ( 52 % ) in these states say that abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , while just 40 % say it should be generally legal . There is also substantially more opposition to abortion in Midwestern states than in the country at large . In this region – ranging from Kansas and Missouri to Minnesota and North Dakota –as many say abortion should generally be illegal as say it should generally be legal ( 47 % ) .
Spaniards are not happy with the state of democracy in their country . Only about a third ( 32 % ) of Spaniards say they are satisfied with how Spain 's democracy is working . However , satisfaction with democracy has increased by 12 % since just last year , when the nation was in the midst of a corruption scandal that implicated and led to the ouster of the People 's Party ( PP ) , which was the governing party at the time .
Among the two-thirds of Republicans who say Trump has definitely or probably not done things that are illegal , nearly all ( 97 % ) say that he should remain in office following the Senate trial . While a majority of the 32 % of Republicans who say Trump has likely done illegal things either during the campaign or while in office also say he should remain in office ( 59 % ) , about four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say the president should be removed from office .
Majority sees increased partisan divisions , but fewer do so than last fall . The public has long believed that the nation 's partisan divisions have widened . But the share saying divisions between Republicans and Democrats , while large , has declined since last September . Currently , 65 % say divisions between Republicans and Democrats in the U.S. are growing , compared with 78 % who said this last fall .
A majority of black adults say they have been discriminated against because of their race , but this varies by education . Roughly eight-in-ten blacks with at least some college experience ( 81 % ) say they 've experienced racial discrimination , at least from time to time , including 17 % who say this happens regularly . Among blacks with a high school education or less , these shares are lower – 69 % and 9 % , respectively .
For its part , the media devoted the most coverage to the budget drama that played out in Washington and the last-minute compromise that averted a shutdown last weekend . This story accounted for 29 % of coverage – roughly four times the amount of coverage devoted to the Japan disaster ( 7 % ) and far more coverage than for any other story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
One-in-seven U.S. infants ( 14 % ) are multiracial or multiethnic . This share is nearly triple the share ( 5 % ) in 1980 . Multiracial or multiethnic infants include children younger than 1 year old who live with two parents and whose parents are each of a different race , those with one Hispanic and one non-Hispanic parent , and those with at least one parent who identifies as multiracial .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted June 16 - 22 among 4,708 adults , including 3,577 registered voters , finds sharp differences in how voters evaluate Trump 's presidency compared with Biden 's presidency , if he is elected . Very few voters – just 9 % – say Trump is an average president ; 37 % say he is a good or great president ; and a much larger share ( 53 % ) say he is poor or terrible , including 42 % who think he is a terrible president . Fewer voters ( 28 % ) say Biden would be a good or great president than say that about Trump as president . And compared with Trump , many more say Biden would be average ; 29 % say he would be an average president . However , 43 % say Biden would be poor or terrible , which is 10 percentage points lower than the share expressing such negative views about Trump as president .
About three-quarters of white evangelical Protestants ( 77 % ) think abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . By contrast , 83 % of religiously unaffiliated Americans say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , as do nearly two-thirds of black Protestants ( 64 % ) , six-in-ten white mainline Protestants ( 60 % ) and a slim majority of Catholics ( 56 % ) .
Fully 43 % say they followed news about the election outcome more closely than any other news , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted among 996 adults from Nov. 4 - 7 . News about the elections accounted for 57 % of the newshole , the highest level of coverage for any story since the 2008 elections , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Republicans also were somewhat less likely than Democrats to post about the attack in general : 66 % of GOP members with Facebook pages did so between the day of the attack and Oct. 9 , compared with 84 % of Democrats . ( Oct. 9 was chosen as the cutoff date to gauge lawmakers ' early reactions to the shooting . )
The press receives lower ratings for its coverage of Iraq from those who were following that story closely – 13 % rate the coverage excellent , 37 % say it 's been good . Reports about sub-par conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center receive similar ratings from those following the story closely – 10 % excellent , 39 % good . The public also gives the press higher grades for its Smith coverage than for its reporting on the 2008 presidential campaign and on the mounting tensions between Iran and the U.S . Roughly half of those following each story give the press excellent or good ratings for its coverage .
Average audience for morning news programs from ABC , CBS and NBC declined over the past year , down 4 % in 2018 , to about 3.2 million from 3.3 million .
Across Turkey , Erdogan also receives less support from more secular Muslims . Only 36 % of Muslims in Turkey who pray infrequently ( hardly ever or only during religious holidays ) have a favorable view of the Islamist-oriented PM . Meanwhile , three-fourths of Turkish Muslims who pray five times a day have a positive view of him .
Two examples illustrate this pattern . Democrats with a high degree of science knowledge are much more likely than those with low science knowledge to say the scientific method generally produces accurate conclusions ( 86 % vs. 52 % ) . Among Republicans , however , there are only modest differences by science knowledge on this question .
Even before this week 's terrorist bombing at a pop concert in Manchester , England , people across Europe and in the U.S. and Canada had pervasive concerns about the threat of extremism in their countries . Across 12 countries surveyed from February through April by Pew Research Center , majorities said they were at least somewhat concerned about extremism in the name of Islam in their countries , including 79 % who said this in the UK itself . And across the 10 EU countries surveyed , a median of 79 % were concerned about Islamic extremism , while only 21 % were not concerned . In many of the countries polled this year , much of the public is very concerned about extremism in the name of Islam . This includes 50 % in Italy and Spain , 47 % in Germany , 46 % in France and 43 % in the UK . Meanwhile , less than 15 % of the population in all these countries is not at all concerned about the threat of extremism in the name of Islam .
A majority of white mainline Protestants ( 60 % ) and black Protestants ( 64 % ) say abortion should be legal in all or most cases . By contrast , 77 % of white evangelical Protestants say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . Among Catholics , more say abortion should be legal ( 56 % ) than illegal ( 42 % ) in all or most cases . Those who are not affiliated with a religion are among the most supportive of legal abortion : 83 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases . Across age groups , those under 50 are more supportive of legal abortion than are those 50 and older . For example , 70 % of those ages 18 to 29 say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with 55 % of those ages 65 and older .
Overall , 63 % of Democratic voters say there are several candidates they feel excited about . Liberal Democrats ( 73 % ) are more likely to express this view than are conservative and moderate Democrats ( 52 % ) . And while about two-thirds of Democrats who say they follow government affairs most of the time ( 68 % ) say they are excited about several candidates in the Democratic field , only about half of those who follow government less closely ( 53 % ) say the same .
The tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran are often characterized as sectarian – that is , Iran and its Shia allies versus Saudi Arabia and its Sunni brethren . And this characterization plays out to a large degree in public attitudes toward the two countries in five Middle Eastern nations Pew Research Center surveyed in spring 2015 . In Jordan , a predominantly Sunni Muslim nation , 78 % of the public have a favorable view of Saudi Arabia , compared with only 8 % who have a positive opinion of Iran .
This is substantially less than the share who very closely followed news about shootings last December at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown , Conn. ( 57 % ) or last July in an Aurora , Colo. movie theater ( 48 % ) . About four-in-ten ( 44 % ) followed the 2009 shooting at the Fort Hood Army post in Texas very closely .
Although most European Muslims are satisfied with the general direction of the countries they live in , large majorities are still concerned about the future of Muslims in their country . British Muslims are the most concerned – eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) are at least somewhat concerned including about half ( 49 % ) who are very concerned . French Muslims follow closely behind in their anxiety , with 72 % saying they are either very ( 38 % ) or somewhat ( 34 % ) concerned . The numbers of Muslims very concerned about the future are somewhat lower in Germany ( 28 % ) and Spain ( 30 % ) although substantial majorities in both countries say they are at least somewhat worried as they look ahead .
In contrast to views about gene editing and animal cloning research , majorities in all places surveyed say that research into new technologies to help women get pregnant is appropriate ( median of 73 % ) . A median of just 21 % say such research is a misuse of technology .
Dads see parenting as central to their identity . Dads are just as likely as moms to say that parenting is extremely important to their identity . Some 57 % of fathers said this in a 2015 survey by the Center , compared with 58 % of mothers . Like moms , many dads also seem to appreciate the benefits of parenthood : 54 % reported that parenting is rewarding all of the time , as did 52 % of moms . Meanwhile , 46 % of fathers and 41 % of mothers said they find parenting enjoyable all of the time .
Through the Millennium Challenge Corporation , the President 's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief ( PEPFAR ) and other programs , the U.S. provides assistance to many African nations , and the 2013 Pew Research poll found a widespread belief that U.S. economic aid is having a positive impact . More than half in all six nations surveyed said American aid was having a beneficial effect on their country . Outside of sub-Saharan Africa , U.S. assistance is not always viewed so positively : The same question was asked in Egypt and Pakistan , where only 24 % and 8 % , respectively , saw American aid in a favorable light .
Broadly speaking , older people across the 14 countries are more concerned by security threats . In the case of terrorism , for instance , a median of 72 % among those ages 50 and older say it is a major threat , compared with 53 % among those who are 18 to 29 . Similar age gaps appear in concerns about cyberattacks and the spread of nuclear weapons .
While STEM workers tend to be highly educated , roughly a third have not completed a bachelor 's or higher-level degree . A substantial share ( 35 % ) of the STEM workforce does not have a bachelor 's degree . Overall , about three-in-ten STEM workers report having completed an associate degree ( 15 % ) or have some college education but no degree ( 14 % ) . These workers are more prevalent among health care practitioners and technicians , computer workers and engineers . Some 36 % of STEM workers have a bachelor 's degree but no graduate degree . Roughly three-in-ten STEM workers ( 29 % ) have earned a master 's , doctorate or professional degree . Life scientists are the most highly educated among STEM workers , with 54 % , on average , having an advanced degree .
Roughly seven-in-ten Hispanic adults ( 69 % ) disapprove of Trump 's job performance , as does an even larger majority of Black adults ( 86 % ) . Disapproval among Black adults is especially deeply held : 70 % say they very strongly disapprove of his job performance ; in March , 58 % said this . Younger adults remain much more critical of Trump 's performance than older adults . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 disapprove of how Trump is handling his job . The oldest adults ( ages 65 and older ) are as likely to say they approve ( 48 % ) as disapprove ( 48 % ) of Trump . Disapproval of Trump has edged higher among all age groups since earlier this year .
When it comes to education , sub-Saharan Africa stands out for making the biggest improvement in access to education since 1990 compared with other regions of the world . The proportion of children enrolled in primary or secondary school increased by 54 % over the past 25 years .
Urban residents are more likely than suburban and rural residents to see certain local news topics as important for daily life . For example , roughly half of adults in urban areas ( 49 % ) say crime is an important topic to follow for daily life – higher than those who live in suburban or rural areas ( 43 % each ) . Urban residents are also more likely to say news about jobs and unemployment is important to follow for daily life ( 21 % ) than those in suburban ( 13 % ) or rural ( 14 % ) areas . The same pattern of difference exists for government and politics and prices .
After increasing for at least four decades , the share of the Hispanic population that is foreign born began declining after 2000 . Among all Hispanics , the share that was born in another country was 34.4 % in 2015 , down from a peak of about 40 % earlier in the 2000s . The share of adult Hispanics who are foreign born began declining a bit later – 47.9 % of Hispanic adults were born in another country in 2015 , down from a peak of 55.0 % in 2007 .
The biennial news consumption survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted among 3,204 adults from April 27 to May 22 , finds that the audience for online news is fairly broad , but not particularly deep . People who say they logged on for news yesterday spent 32 minutes , on average , getting the news online . That is significantly less than the average number of minutes that newspaper readers , radio news listeners , and TV news viewers spend with those sources . And while nearly half of all Americans ( 48 % ) spend at least 30 minutes getting news on television , just 9 % spend that long getting news online . The web serves mostly as a supplement to other sources rather than a primary source of news . Those who use the web for news still spend more time getting news from other sources than they do getting news online . In addition , web news consumers emphasize speed and convenience over detail . Of the 23 % who got news on the internet yesterday , only a minority visited newspaper websites . Instead , websites that include quick updates of major headlines , such as MSNBC , Yahoo , and CNN , dominate the web-news landscape .
With just over two months before the midterm elections , Republican voters are widening the `` expectations gap '' with the Democrats . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Republican and GOP-leaning registered voters think their party will do better than in recent elections — roughly double the share of Democrats ( 32 % ) who feel similarly about their party 's chances . This gap has not reached the same levels of the GOP 's margin before their large 2010 gains or the Democrats ' expectations in their 2006 sweep of both houses of Congress . Last December , the expectations gap was narrower ; 55 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning registered voters said the party would do better than recent elections , compared with 43 % of Democrats .
As we found during the campaign , Republicans and Democrats are more likely to discuss the election with people on their side than with those on the other side . Eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners say they 've had a conversation with someone who supported Trump , and about seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 72 % ) say they 've had a conversation with someone who supported Hillary Clinton . By contrast , fewer Republicans ( 45 % ) and Democrats ( 40 % ) say they 've had a conversation with a supporter of the other candidate .
Among adults ages 25 and older , three-in-ten Christians in sub-Saharan Africa have not completed even a year of primary schooling ( 30 % ) . But among Muslims in the region , fully 65 % have no formal education – a 35-percentage-point difference with Christians , a new Pew Research Center analysis has found .
U.S. Census Bureau data show that 144,000 more people left the island for the mainland than the other way around from mid-2010 to 2013 , a larger gap between emigrants and migrants than during the entire decades of the 1970s , 1980s or 1990s . This escalated loss of migrants fueled the island 's first sustained population decline in its history as a U.S. territory , even as the stateside Puerto Rican population grew briskly .
When asked to rate key institutions in their countries , people generally assign high marks to the military , with a median of 79 % saying it has a good influence on the way things are going in their country . But most major national organizations and groups , such as the media , religious leaders , banks , corporations , the national government and civil servants also get positive marks . Emerging and developing publics are less enamored with their court systems – the only institution polled which receives support from less than half of respondents .
Frustration with the feeling that some corporations and wealthy people do not pay their fair share of taxes is shared widely across demographic and partisan groups . Fully 75 % of Democrats are bothered a lot by the feeling that corporations do not pay their fair share of taxes , and 72 % say the same about wealthy people not paying their fair share . Fewer Republicans are bothered a lot by some corporations ( 52 % ) and wealthy people ( 45 % ) not paying their fair share . Still , these rank among the Republicans ' top concerns among five items tested .
Substantial shares of people in three African nations – Nigeria , Tunisia and Kenya – say they plan to move to another country within five years , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2018 . In Nigeria , Africa 's most populated nation , nearly half ( 45 % ) of adults say they plan to move to another country within five years , by far the highest share among 12 countries surveyed across four continents . Meanwhile , a quarter ( 24 % ) of adults in Tunisia say they plan to leave within five years , as do 19 % in Kenya . In 2017 , substantial shares in Senegal , Ghana and South Africa said the same .
The conflict over religion and homosexuality spills over into the views of the lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender population toward the Catholic Church . A recent Pew Research survey of the LGBT community found that nearly eight-in-ten LGBT adults ( 79 % ) perceive the Catholic Church as unfriendly toward them , 16 % say it is neutral and just 4 % say it is friendly .
But not all of those parents may buy their own reassurances : Nearly one-in-five U.S. adults ( 18 % ) say they 've seen or been in the presence of a ghost , according to a 2009 Pew Research Center survey . An even greater share – 29 % – say they have felt in touch with someone who has already died .
About half ( 51 % ) say immigrants today strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents , while 41 % say immigrants are a burden because they take jobs , housing and health care . The share saying that immigrants strengthen the country has declined six percentage points since last year .
The public paid less attention to the hostage situation in Algeria ( 17 % very closely ) . And two sports-related controversies , Lance Armstrong admitting he used performance-enhancing drugs and an alleged hoax involving Notre Dame football player Manti Te'o and false claims about his deceased girlfriend , garnered little public attention : just 11 % followed Armstrong news very closely and 10 % followed news about Manti Te'o very closely . In the first week of January , the resolution to the fiscal cliff topped the public 's news agenda with 38 % saying they followed that story very closely . Economic news ( 34 % very closely ) and the debate over gun control ( 34 % very closely ) also received significant public attention in the Jan. 3 - 6 survey .
Still , the percentage of Mexicans who are inclined to move to the U.S. remains steady at roughly a third ( 34 % ) . People who want to migrate north are split between those who would move without authorization ( 17 % ) and those who would move only with legal authority ( 17 % ) . Nearly two-thirds of Mexicans ( 65 % ) say they would not go live in the U.S. , even if they had the means and ability to do so . Men ( 38 % would move ) and young people age 18 - 29 ( 51 % ) are particularly likely to say they would go to the U.S. if they could .
Overall , 54 % of Americans say they pay about the right amount in taxes , considering what they get from the federal government , while 40 % say they pay more than their fair share . Just 5 % believe they pay less than their fair share . Currently those in higher income families are more likely than those in lower income families to feel they are paying more than their fair share . About half ( 52 % ) of those with annual family incomes of $ 100,000 or more say they pay more than their fair share . By comparison , just 30 % of those with family incomes of less than $ 30,000 say they pay more than their fair share .
While only 36 % of U.S. primary schools had officers on site , the vast majority of those schools ( 86 % ) reported that officers routinely carried a firearm . ( By comparison , 93 % of secondary schools with officers present said officers carried a firearm . ) Primary schools in cities were less likely than those in towns and rural areas to report that officers carried a firearm . Across all community types , 32 % of primary schools with officers present reported having formalized policies or written documents specifically about officers ' use of firearms .
5 How does social media impact the discussion of news events ? Our recent survey revealed social media does n't always facilitate conversation around the important issues of the day . In fact , we found people were less willing to discuss their opinion on the Snowden-NSA story on social media than they were in person . And Facebook and Twitter users were less likely to want to share their opinions in many face-to-face settings , especially if they felt their social audience disagreed with them .
Supporters of some , but not all , populist parties are less favorable toward the UN . Supporters of six populist parties in Europe are less likely than those with an unfavorable opinion of these parties to express a positive opinion of the UN . For example , 48 % of those who favor the Czech ANO 2011 party have a positive view of the UN , compared with 69 % of those who do not favor this party . Supporters of five other populist parties are more likely than those with the opposite opinion to see the UN favorably . For example , 78 % of those who support Slovakia 's Ordinary People and Independent Personalities ( OLaNO ) party have a favorable view of the UN , compared with 61 % of those who do not support this party .
About half of 2.2 million people who sought asylum in Europe during the 2015 and 2016 refugee surge were still in limbo at the end of 2016 and did not know if they would be allowed to stay . Among Europe 's asylum seekers waiting on decisions as of the end of 2016 , an estimated two-thirds had not had a decision made on their case – and another third ( about 385,000 ) were appealing their first decision after being rejected . For asylum seekers from certain countries , the share waiting was much higher than the share approved . For example , an estimated 89 % of Albanian applicants between 2015 and 2016 were waiting to know their status in Europe at the end of 2016 .
As the 2020 presidential campaign ramps up , a growing share of Americans say it is likely that Russia or other foreign governments will attempt to influence the November election . At the same time , confidence in the federal government to prevent election interference by foreign governments has declined .
Global publics oppose some of Trump 's major policies . We tested five of Trump 's major national security and foreign policy proposals – withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal , placing tighter restrictions on people entering the U.S. from certain majority-Muslim nations , pulling out of international climate change agreements , withdrawing from trade deals and building a wall on the Mexican border – and with a few exceptions , they meet with broad disapproval around the world . Trump gets his lowest ratings in Mexico . Over the past decade , U.S. presidents have gotten mixed or negative reviews in Mexico , but at 5 % , Trump registers the lowest confidence rating of any U.S. leader in Mexico since Pew Research Center began surveying there . His rating in Mexico is also the lowest among the 37 nations polled in 2017 . The proposed border wall between the U.S. and Mexico has been a high-profile position for Trump since he declared his candidacy for president , and more than nine-in-ten Mexicans oppose it . U.S. favorability has typically been higher than confidence in the American president in Mexico , and that remains the case this year – though the share of the public with a positive view of the U.S. has dropped steeply since 2015 .
Facebook users are more likely to post and comment on political content , whereas Twitter users are more likely to follow news organizations and political parties . About a third ( 32 % ) of Facebook users post about politics and government , compared with a quarter ( 25 % ) of Twitter users . ( These figures refer to all users , not just news users ) . Additionally , about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) Facebook users comment on posts about government and politics and 43 % `` like '' posts .
Only one-fifth of Americans believe that trade creates jobs compared to a median of 44 % among people in advanced economies , 52 % of those in emerging economies and 66 % of those in developing countries , according to a new Pew Research Center 44 country global survey . The disparities are similar when Americans are asked if trade increases wages , with the U.S. public holding a far more negative view than people in most other nations .
Overall , 55 % of the Turkish public says the military is having a good influence on the way things are going in Turkey . An equal number say the same about the police . Around half see the national government ( 51 % ) , Prime Minister Erdogan ( 48 % ) and civil servants ( 47 % ) as a positive influence on the country . Less than four-in-ten say this about the court system ( 37 % ) , religious leaders ( 37 % ) and the media ( 32 % ) .
President Bush is facing an electorate that is almost as focused on the economy as it was in the fall of 1991 , when rising economic concern began to unravel his father 's reelection chances . In an open-ended format , nearly half ( 49 % ) of Americans volunteer the economy or jobs as the single issues they most want the presidential candidates to discuss . That is considerably higher than levels measured at various points during the last two presidential campaigns and is nearly as high as in October 1991 ( 58 % ) , although more Americans focused on jobs at that time than now .
A 2014 Pew Research Center survey of 43 countries around the world showed that a median of 65 % of people in Latin America had a positive view of the U.S . While not quite as positive as attitudes toward America in Africa ( 74 % ) , this level of approval is on par with views in Europe ( 66 % ) and Asia ( 66 % ) and much higher than in the Middle East ( 30 % ) . The survey was conducted last spring before Obama 's diplomatic opening to Cuba . Majorities in all but one of nine Latin American countries surveyed view the U.S. favorably . Attitudes toward the U.S. have remained positive or grown more favorable in four countries Pew Research surveyed in both 2007 and 2014 . In 2007 , a majority of Chileans ( 55 % ) said they had a favorable view of the U.S . This number jumped to 72 % in 2014 , an increase of 17 percentage points . And in Argentina , the Latin American country most critical of the U.S. , favorable views have jumped 20 points , from only 16 % in 2007 to 36 % now . The change has been less marked in Mexico , where favorable opinions of the U.S. have increased by 7 percentage points ( 56 % favorable in 2007 vs. 63 % in 2014 ) . Favorable views of the U.S. in Peru remained steady , going from 61 % in 2007 to 65 % in the latest survey .
There also are differences in public priorities about energy by age . Americans under the age of 50 are especially likely to support alternative energy sources over expanding fossil fuels . About seven-in-ten ( 73 % ) of those ages 18 to 49 say developing alternative sources of energy should be the more important priority , while 22 % say expanding production of fossil fuels should be the more important priority . Older adults are more divided in their views , though they also give more priority to alternatives . Among those 50 and older , 55 % say alternative energy development is more important , while 34 % say it 's more important to expand production of fossil fuel energy sources .
People in other countries overwhelmingly believe the U.S. has done a bad job dealing with COVID-19 . Across the 13 countries surveyed this summer , a median of 84 % of adults say the U.S. has done a bad job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak , including 53 % who say it has done a very bad job . A median of only 15 % of adults in the surveyed countries see the U.S. response positively . Opinions about the U.S. response are especially negative in South Korea , Denmark , Germany and Belgium . In each of these countries , around nine-in-ten adults say the U.S. response to COVID-19 has been bad , including roughly two-thirds in South Korea ( 66 % ) and Belgium ( 64 % ) who say it has been very bad .
Among religiously affiliated Southern teens , roughly four-in-ten say they regularly pray before eating lunch at their public school ( 38 % ) , compared with smaller shares in the Midwest ( 23 % ) , West ( 20 % ) and Northeast ( 13 % ) who say this . Teens in the South ( 31 % ) also are more likely than teens in the West ( 21 % ) and Northeast ( 14 % ) to invite other students to religious youth groups or worship services . There are fewer regional differences among religiously affiliated teens in public schools when it comes to personally wearing religious clothing or jewelry in school . About a third of teens in the South ( 36 % ) and Midwest ( 35 % ) say they often or sometimes wear clothing or jewelry with religious symbols , as do 26 % of teens in the Northeast and 25 % of teens in the West .
Six-in-ten religiously unaffiliated Americans – adults who describe their religious identity as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' – say the questioning of religious teachings is a very important reason for their lack of affiliation . The second-most-common reason is opposition to the positions taken by churches on social and political issues , cited by 49 % of respondents ( the survey asked about each of the six options separately ) . Smaller , but still substantial , shares say they dislike religious organizations ( 41 % ) , do n't believe in God ( 37 % ) , consider religion irrelevant to them ( 36 % ) or dislike religious leaders ( 34 % ) . Those who identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' tend to give different reasons for their lack of affiliation , showing that `` nones '' are far from a monolithic group . For example , about nine-in-ten self-described atheists ( 89 % ) say their lack of belief in God is a very important reason for their religious identity , compared with 37 % of agnostics and 21 % of those in the `` nothing in particular '' category . Atheists also are more likely than other `` nones '' to say religion is simply `` irrelevant '' to them ( 63 % of atheists vs. 40 % of agnostics and 26 % of adults with no particular religion ) .
Many Americans are uncomfortable not only with clergy endorsing candidates from the pulpit at election time , but also with churches and other houses of worship speaking out on day-to-day social and political questions . Overall , more than six-in-ten U.S. adults say places of worship should keep out of political matters ( 63 % ) ; only 36 % think they should express their views on day-to-day social and political issues .
Immigrants account for most of the 4.6 million U.S. residents with origins in El Salvador , Guatemala and Honduras and are the main driver of the group 's growth . By contrast , two-thirds of Mexican Americans were born in the U.S. , and births to U.S. residents are the main contributor to the group 's population growth .
3 '' Negative voting '' is higher for Trump than it was for past GOP candidates . While most Republican voters say Trump does represent the party 's core principles , they are divided over whether they are mostly voting `` for '' him or `` against '' Clinton . In our most recent survey , 51 % of registered voters supporting Trump say they see their choice as more of a vote against Clinton than a vote for Trump . That is the highest share of `` negative voting '' among supporters of Republican candidates dating back to George W. Bush 's first presidential race in 2000 . Among Clinton supporters , 57 % view their choice as for Clinton , rather than against Trump . The share of Clinton 's backers who view their choice positively is less than the share of pro-Barack Obama voters who did so in 2008 ( 77 % ) or 2012 ( 73 % ) , but much higher than the level of positive support for John Kerry in 2004 ( 39 % ) .
Of four possible options for cutting the deficit , only one – lowering domestic spending – draws majority support . Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) are in favor of cutting domestic spending while just 30 % are opposed . The public is divided over lowering military spending ( 49 % favor vs. 47 % oppose ) to reduce the deficit .
The majority of Americans who have heard of QAnon think it 's a bad thing for the country . Among those who have heard of the conspiracy theories , 57 % say QAnon is a `` very bad '' thing for the country . Another 17 % say it is `` somewhat bad . '' That compares with 20 % who say it is a somewhat or very good thing , while 6 % did not answer . Democrats who have heard of QAnon are more likely than their Republican counterparts to say it 's bad for the country . Almost eight-in-ten Democrats who have heard of QAnon ( 77 % ) say it is a `` very bad '' thing for the country , and another 13 % say it is a somewhat bad thing . On the other hand , only about a quarter of Republicans who have heard of QAnon ( 26 % ) feel it is very bad for the country , while 24 % say it is somewhat bad . Indeed , roughly four-in-ten Republicans who have heard of QAnon ( 41 % ) say it is a good thing for the country ( 32 % somewhat good and 9 % very good ) .
On five issues included in the survey , Obama gets a positive net rating on one : race relations . About half ( 48 % ) approve of his handling of race relations , while 43 % disapprove . The public holds mixed views on Obama 's handling of health care policy ( 46 % approve , 50 % disapprove ) , the economy ( 45 % approve , 51 % disapprove ) and global climate change ( 41 % approve , 39 % disapprove ) .
Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has contributed a great deal to the size of the debt . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say the same about the condition of the national economy .
As part of a larger survey of Hispanic immigrants fielded in late 2015 , Pew Research Center asked Mexican green-card holders why they had not yet become naturalized U.S. citizens . The most frequent reasons centered on inadequate English skills , lack of time or initiative , and the cost of the U.S. citizenship application . These appear to be significant barriers , as nearly all lawful immigrants from Mexico said they would like to become U.S. citizens someday . In the United States , the citizenship , or naturalization , rate among all lawful immigrants steadily increased from 1995 to 2005 , rising from 47 % to 62 % . Until about 2005 , the naturalization rate among lawful immigrants from Mexico also increased steadily , but did so more rapidly ( from 20 % in 1995 to 38 % in 2005 ) , narrowing the gap between Mexicans and other immigrants . However , between 2005 and 2010 , the naturalization rate of Mexican green-card holders leveled off , even as the rate for lawful permanent residents from other parts of the globe continued to rise . Only in the period from 2011 to 2015 did the rate of naturalization among eligible Mexican immigrants significantly increase again at a pace higher than that of other lawful U.S. immigrants – going from 38 % to 42 % among Mexicans , compared with a 2-percentage-point increase , from 72 % to 74 % among non-Mexican immigrants .
By a ratio of nearly four-to-one , adults in this country say that American parents are placing too little ( 56 % ) rather than too much ( 15 % ) pressure on students , with the remaining quarter ( 24 % ) saying that parents are exerting the right amount of pressure . Parents and non-parents feel roughly the same way about this question , the survey finds . So do Republicans and Democrats , blacks and whites , older adults and younger adults , people with low incomes and those with high incomes , and people with college degrees and those with a just a high school education or less . The only demographic gap in attitudes about this question — and it 's not especially wide — comes on the gender front . More men ( 62 % ) than women ( 51 % ) say parents are n't being tough enough . Roughly six-in-ten Japanese ( 59 % ) say all this pressure is too much , while 30 % feel the demands are about right . Only 9 % say students need more parental pressure — a figure that stands in stark contrast to the 56 % of Americans who feel this way about students here .
The survey asked those who say there is some other reason why they do n't expect to have more children or to have children at all to elaborate on those reasons . The responses of childless adults can not be analyzed due to the small number of respondents in this category , but among parents who do n't expect to have more kids , the most common response is that either they or their partner is unable to have children due to a medical reason ( 41 % of parents ages 18 to 49 say this ) . Age is the second-most cited reason , given by 25 % of these respondents . A small share ( 6 % ) cites financial reasons , such as the cost of child care , and 3 % say they either do n't have a partner or that their partner does n't want to have more children .
In contrast to Republicans , Republican-leaning independents favored same-sex marriage ( 58 % were in favor , 37 % were opposed ) . Support for same-sex marriage was higher among Democratic-leaning independents than among Democrats ( 82 % vs. 73 % ) . Public support for legalizing marijuana use has followed a similar upward trajectory in recent years . Currently , 62 % of the public says the use of marijuana should be made legal , while 34 % say it should be illegal . Majorities of both Democrats ( 69 % ) and independents ( 68 % ) favor legalizing marijuana ; Republicans are divided , with 45 % supportive of legalization and 51 % opposed . Among GOP-leaning independents , a 60 % majority favors legalizing marijuana . And a large majority of Democratic-leaning independents ( 75 % ) also favors marijuana legalization .
Just prior to the 2016 election , the public had fairly low expectations for Donald Trump 's presidency . Majorities of Americans said that if Trump was elected , he would not be likely to improve the way government works , set a high moral standard for the presidency or achieve other goals .
In a week that saw passage of health care legislation by the Senate Finance Committee , news about health care reform remained front-and-center on the public 's news agenda , topping both public interest and news coverage . The latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted October 16 - 19 among 1,004 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that public interest in the war in Afghanistan continues to be fairly modest . Only about one-in-ten ( 9 % ) cite the war as their top story for the week , which is less than the percentage ( 14 % ) that mentioned the story of a boy thought to be aboard a runaway balloon who was later found safe , and the proportion citing swine flu news ( 20 % ) . The health care debate was the top story – at 32 % – as has been the case in most recent weeks .
Overall , two-thirds of Americans either do not know how the Supreme Court ruled on the Voting Rights Act ( 43 % ) or say incorrectly that it kept the law in effect ( 23 % ) . Only about a third ( 34 % ) know that the court overturned parts of the law .
A median of 52 % across 26 countries surveyed by Pew Research Center between May 14 and Aug. 12 , 2018 , consider North Korea 's nuclear program to be a major threat to their country . Roughly half the interviews in the survey were fielded before the first meeting between the two leaders on June 12 , 2018 . Worries are especially prevalent in the five Asian-Pacific countries surveyed . There , a median of 61 % say the nuclear program is a major threat . In Japan , nearly three-in-four ( 73 % ) see the nuclear program as a threat . Two-thirds in neighboring South Korea consider North Korea a nuclear threat . And roughly six-in-ten in the Philippines and Indonesia also have worries about the nuclear program .
As the 2020 U.S. census approaches , Americans overwhelmingly are aware of it , and more than eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) say they definitely or probably will participate , a new Pew Research Center survey finds . Still , 16 % express at least some uncertainty about responding , with higher shares saying this among some demographic groups .
Overall , four-in-ten ( 39 % ) respondents say that U.S. Latinos of different origins share `` a lot '' of values , while another 39 % say U.S. Latinos share `` some '' values and an additional 19 % say that they share few or no values . By similar shares , Latinos living in this country are divided about how many values they share with Latinos living in their families ' country of origin .
India and Pakistan have been divided by decades of political animosities , a nuclear arms race and several wars . Indians and Pakistanis see each other 's country as the biggest threat to their national security , according to Pew Research 's 2012 polls in the respective countries . When asked to choose the most serious threat to their country , 41 % of Indians point to Pakistan . Among Pakistanis , 59 % pick India .
The 2012 campaign has gotten off to a much slower start when compared with the previous presidential election campaign . At a comparable point in early 2007 , 8 % of all news coverage was devoted to the campaign and 13 % said it was the story they were following most closely .
Domestically , despite international concerns leveled by various governments regarding Duterte 's controversial clashes with drug cartels and potential human rights violations , the Filipino leader and his policies are widely popular . Fully 86 % have a favorable view of Duterte himself , 78 % support his handling of the illegal-drugs issue and 62 % say that the Philippine government is making progress in its anti-drug campaign .1 Meanwhile , 78 % believe the current economic situation is good and 57 % are satisfied with the direction of the country , a 21-percentage-point increase from 2014 , the last time this question was asked in the Philippines . Since being elected in 2016 , Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte has waged a war on drugs that has garnered international condemnation , including accusations of crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court . Yet Pew Research Center 's 2017 survey finds that Duterte is well-liked domestically and his policies , including his approach to the war on drugs , are generally popular among Filipinos . A 57 % majority say they are satisfied with the way things are going in their country , up from 36 % three years ago . Moreover , 78 % believe that the economic situation in the Philippines is good , while only 20 % say the economy is in bad shape .
Most Americans believe libraries do a decent job of serving the education and learning needs of their communities and their own families . A new survey by Pew Research Center shows that 76 % of adults say libraries serve the learning and educational needs of their communities either `` very well '' ( 37 % ) or `` pretty well '' ( 39 % ) . Further , 71 % say libraries serve their own personal needs and the needs of their families `` very well '' or `` pretty well . ''
Indeed , the prevailing view in Russia , Ukraine , Lithuania , Slovakia , Bulgaria and Hungary is that people were better off economically under communism . Only in the Czech Republic and Poland do pluralities believe that most people are now better off . Furthermore , the consensus in many of these countries is that ordinary people have benefited far less than have business owners and politicians .
Asked about a range of activities they have performed in response to the coronavirus outbreak , roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Americans say they have used email or messaging services to communicate with others , while 70 % report that they have searched online for information about the coronavirus . By comparison , fewer Americans – though still about four-in-ten – say they have shared or posted information about the outbreak on social media . As more companies move to encouraging – or requiring – telework , one-quarter of those surveyed say they have used video calling or an online conferencing service , like Zoom or WebEx , to attend a work-related meeting due to the coronavirus outbreak . Smaller shares of Americans ( 16 % ) report using the internet or email to connect with doctors or other medical professionals as a result of the outbreak .
The number of Muslim refugees admitted to the United States in the first half of fiscal 2018 has dropped from the previous year more than any other religious group , falling to nearly 1,800 compared with the roughly 22,900 admitted in all of fiscal 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. State Department data . The low point in Muslim admissions was set in the year after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks . The reduction in Muslim refugee admissions is part of an overall slowdown in admissions . About 10,500 refugees , including about 6,700 Christians , entered the U.S. from Oct. 1 , 2017 , to March 31 , 2018 – far behind the 39,100 admissions at this point in fiscal 2017 ( including 18,500 Muslims and 16,900 Christians ) . As a result of these changes , Christians account for a far larger share of refugees admitted than Muslims the first half of fiscal 2018 ( 63 % vs. 17 % ) . By comparison , in full fiscal 2017 Christians ( 47 % ) and Muslims ( 43 % ) were more evenly split , and in fiscal 2016 the Muslim share ( 46 % ) slightly exceeded the Christian share ( 44 % ) .
Roughly a quarter of U.S. adults ( 27 % ) say they have n't read a book in whole or in part in the past year , whether in print , electronic or audio form , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Jan. 8 to Feb. 7. Who are these non-book readers ? Several demographic traits correlate with non-book reading , Pew Research Center surveys have found . For instance , adults with a high school diploma or less are far more likely than those with a bachelor 's or advanced degree to report not reading books in any format in the 12 months before the survey ( 44 % vs. 8 % ) . Adults with lower levels of educational attainment are also among the least likely to own smartphones , a device that saw a substantial increase in usage for reading e-books from 2011 to 2016 . ( College-educated adults are more likely to own these devices and use them to read e-books . ) Adults whose annual household income is $ 30,000 or less are more likely than those living in households earning $ 75,000 or more a year to be non-book readers ( 36 % vs. 14 % ) . Hispanic ( 40 % ) and black ( 33 % ) adults are more likely than whites ( 22 % ) to report not having read a book in the past 12 months . But there are differences between Hispanics born inside and outside the United States : 56 % of foreign-born Hispanics report not having read a book , compared with 27 % of Hispanics born in the U.S .
Americans overwhelmingly see drug addiction as a problem in their local community , regardless of whether they live in an urban , suburban or rural area , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The public 's concerns come amid steep increases in the number and rate of fatal drug overdoses across all three community types in recent years . Nine-in-ten Americans who live in a rural area say drug addiction is either a major or minor problem in their community , as do 87 % in urban and 86 % in suburban areas , according to the survey of 6,251 adults , conducted Feb. 26-March 11 . Substantial shares in each community type say addiction is a major problem , though people in urban and rural areas are more likely to say this than those in a suburban setting ( 50 % and 46 % , respectively , compared with 35 % ) .
White and Black Democrats are nearly equally likely to say that spending should be decreased ( 43 % and 42 % respectively ) ; Hispanic Democrats are somewhat less likely to say this ( 32 % ) . And while 34 % of Hispanic Democrats say funding should be increased , that compares with 23 % of Black Democrats and just 14 % of white Democrats . Younger Democrats are far more likely to say that spending on the police should be decreased . Similar majorities of white ( 57 % ) and Black ( 53 % ) Democrats under the age of 50 say that spending should be decreased , with nearly a third saying it should be decreased a lot ( 30 % and 32 % , respectively ) . By comparison , only about three-in-ten white and Black Democrats ages 50 and older ( 28 % and 29 % , respectively ) say police spending should be decreased .
Slovaks are also more accepting of religious minorities than Czechs . Nearly half of Slovaks ( 47 % ) say they would be willing to accept Muslims as members of their family , and nearly three-in-four ( 73 % ) say the same about Jews . By comparison , just 12 % of Czechs say they would be willing to accept Muslims as members of their family , and around half ( 51 % ) say the same about Jews . On questions of nation and culture , Czechs are generally more likely than Slovaks to agree with nationalist statements . While similar shares in both nations say that having a family background from their country is `` very '' or `` somewhat '' important to being a true national ( i.e. , to being truly Czech ) , more Czechs than Slovaks say being born in their country is important ( 78 % vs. 56 % ) . And more Czechs than Slovaks agree with the statement `` Our people are not perfect , but our culture is superior to others '' ( 55 % vs. 44 % ) .
The Japanese public 's reluctance to endorse the use of military force can also be seen in their concern about how to defeat terrorism around the world . Nearly seven-in-ten Japanese ( 69 % ) see ISIS as a major threat . Yet roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) believe that relying too much on military force will create hatred that leads to more terrorism . Only 14 % back using overwhelming military force as the best way to defeat international terrorism .
Although most people have not changed their views on a political or social issue in the past year because of social media , those who have also tend to place a high level of personal importance on social media as a tool for personal political engagement and activism . Among all social media users , people who changed their views on an issue are much more likely than those who did n't to say such sites are important when it comes to getting involved with political or social issues important to them ( 63 % vs. 35 % ) or finding others who share their views about important issues ( 67 % vs. 38 % ) . Just over half whose views changed ( 56 % ) say social media is personally important in providing a venue to express their political opinions , compared with a third of social media users who have not changed a view in the past year ( 33 % ) .
When it came to re-adjusting to civilian life , half of veterans told the Post/Kaiser it was somewhat or very difficult ; 49 % said it was somewhat or very easy . That was roughly the same as the Pew Research survey found in 2011 , with 44 % reporting difficulty in readjustment .
However , a recent Pew Research Center survey finds that Republicans are much more skeptical than Democrats when it comes to whether colleges and universities are open to different points of view . This partisan gap is not just limited to views of these institutions – Republicans also are less likely than Democrats to see community colleges and K-12 public schools as open to a wide range of opinions and viewpoints .
While Trump and Biden supporters generally see their candidates in a positive light , they make distinctions about whether specific descriptions apply . Notably , an overwhelming share of registered voters who back Biden ( 84 % ) say the phrase even-tempered describes Biden , which is among the positive evaluations of the candidate among his supporters . The reverse is true when it comes to perceptions of the candidates as energetic . More than nine-in-ten Trump voters ( 93 % ) describe him as energetic ; a much smaller majority of Biden supporters ( 64 % ) say this describes Biden very or somewhat well .
9 A majority of Americans and veterans associate discipline and patriotism with veterans . Majorities among veterans ( 61 % ) and the general public ( 64 % ) say most Americans look up to people who have served in the military . And veterans see themselves as more disciplined ( 84 % ) and patriotic ( 71 % ) than those who have not served in the military . Most Americans agree with this : 67 % of all adults say being disciplined better describes veterans than non-veterans , and 59 % say the same about being patriotic .
Across different sites , men and women have varying degrees of engagement . Among internet users , women are significantly more likely than men to use Facebook , Pinterest , and Instagram . A roughly equal proportion of men and women use Twitter and Tumblr , respectively . reddit is the only site we 've measured in which men are significantly more likely than women to be users .
Such studies typically find that consumption inequality is less than income inequality , though still significant . A 2012 study from the American Enterprise Institute , using data from the Consumer Expenditure Survey ( CES ) , found that the top 20 % of households by income accounted for nearly 40 % of total expenditures , while the bottom 20 % accounted for less than 10 % of expenditures . As the chart shows , the gap between the top and bottom has remained relatively constant – a finding that echoes those of other consumption-oriented researchers . Wolff found that in 1962 , the top 1 % of households held 33.4 % of all wealth ; in 2013 their share was 36.7 % . The biggest increase came in the next-wealthiest tier , representing 4 % of households : Their share of wealth rose from 21.2 % in 1962 to 28.2 % in 2013 . As for the bottom 40 % ? Their share fluctuated between 1.5 % and -0.9 % ( i.e. , negative net worth ) for the entire five-decade period Wolff studied .
Hispanic children are also fairly likely to be living in this type of situation , due in part to the high share of moms who stay at home . Fully 18 % of Hispanic children are living in a home with a working dad and a stay-at-home mom in their first marriage . The same is true of 15 % of white children .
The public is split on whether Russian efforts to influence the 2016 election benefited Donald Trump 's campaign or neither campaign very much . Roughly equal shares say that Russian efforts likely benefited Trump 's campaign ( 43 % ) or neither of the campaigns ( 48 % ) – with sharp divisions by party . Just 4 % say Russian efforts benefited Hillary Clinton 's campaign .
The state of the U.S. economy and the health care debate in Washington shared the position of American 's top story last week . One-in-five named either the economy ( 21 % ) or health care ( 21 % ) as the news they followed more closely than any other . These two stories also received comparable levels of new coverage according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism : 13 % of total news was devoted to the economy and 11 % to the debate on reforming health care .
Two of the Democratic Party 's best-known candidates , Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders , are in their 70s , yet only 3 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say this is the best age range for a president . And just 6 % say it would be ideal for a president to be in their 30s .
Overall , 38 % of the public expresses a mix of liberal and conservative positions . In both 1994 and 2004 , nearly half ( 49 % ) had mixed attitudes . As our 2014 polarization study found , Republicans and Democrats increasingly are on opposite sides of the ideological spectrum . Currently , 60 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners have consistently liberal or mostly liberal political values , double the share in 1994 ( 30 % ) and 11 percentage points higher than in 2004 . And the share of Democrats with consistently liberal views has increased from just 5 % in 1994 to 13 % in 2004 and 27 % currently .
When it comes to their general predictions for the future of human employment and workforce automation , roughly two-thirds of Americans expect that within the next 50 years robots and computers will do much of the work currently done by humans . Some 15 % of Americans expect that this level of automation will `` definitely '' happen , while 50 % think it will `` probably '' happen . On the other hand , one-quarter of Americans expect that this outcome will probably not happen , and 7 % believe it will definitely not happen .
Blacks and Hispanics are especially likely to view online harassment as a pressing issue . For instance , larger shares of blacks ( 74 % ) and Hispanics ( 72 % ) than whites ( 57 % ) consider online harassment to be a `` major problem . '' Blacks are also more likely to say it is more important for people to feel safe and welcome online than to be able to speak their minds freely ( 68 % vs. 31 % ) . Whites are more evenly divided on this question ( 51 % vs. 48 % ) , as are Hispanics ( 52 % vs. 46 % ) .
According to the study , poll results look nearly identical whether based only on those adults reached on cellphones or on a combination of cellphone and landline respondents . Analysis of more than 250 survey questions shows that when landlines are excluded , the estimates change by less than 1 percentage point , on average .
Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say that civilians need to have the power to sue police officers to hold them accountable for misconduct and excessive use of force , even if that makes the officers ' jobs more difficult . Just 32 % say that , in order for police officers to do their jobs effectively , they need to be shielded from such lawsuits . About eight-in-ten Black adults ( 86 % ) favor permitting citizens to sue police officers to hold them accountable for misconduct , as do 75 % of Hispanic adults and 60 % of white adults . There also are sizable partisan differences in views of qualified immunity , reflecting the divisions over the issue in Congress . A majority of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 84 % ) say citizens need the power to sue police officers for the use of excessive force and misconduct , compared with 45 % of Republicans and Republican leaners .
Americans and most people in the Asia-Pacific countries surveyed are concerned about North Korea 's nuclear program . Half or more in each country say they are somewhat or very concerned about the nuclear program . In the Asia-Pacific region , anxiety is highest among Pyongyang 's closest neighbors – Japan , the Philippines and South Korea , where around 60 % or more say they are very concerned .
By and large , the public views these examples of algorithmic decision-making as unfair to the people the computer-based systems are evaluating . Most notably , only around one-third of Americans think that the video job interview and personal finance score algorithms would be fair to job applicants and consumers . When asked directly whether they think the use of these algorithms is acceptable , a majority of the public says that they are not acceptable . Two-thirds of Americans ( 68 % ) find the personal finance score algorithm unacceptable , and 67 % say the computer-aided video job analysis algorithm is unacceptable .
More Millennial households are in poverty than households headed by any other generation . In 2016 , an estimated 5.3 million of the nearly 17 million U.S. households living in poverty were headed by a Millennial , compared with 4.2 million headed by a Gen Xer and 5.0 million headed by a Baby Boomer . The relatively high number of Millennial households in poverty partly reflects the fact that the poverty rate among households headed by a young adult has been rising over the past half century while dramatically declining among households headed by those 65 and older . In addition , Millennials are more racially and ethnically diverse than the other adult generations , and a greater share of Millennial households are headed by minorities , who tend to have higher poverty rates . Millennial heads of households are also more likely to be unmarried , which is associated with higher poverty . Millennial households dominate the ranks of the nation 's renters . Last year , Millennials headed 18.4 million of the estimated 45.9 million households that rent their home . By comparison , only 12.9 million Generation X and 10.4 million Boomer households were renters . Among households headed by a member of the Silent or Greatest generation , 4.1 million were renters .
One-quarter of U.S. adults overall ( 24 % ) say their faith has become stronger because of the coronavirus pandemic , while just 2 % say their faith has become weaker . The majority say their faith has n't changed much ( 47 % ) or that the question is n't applicable because they were not religious to begin with ( 26 % ) . Opinions on this question vary based on respondents ' religious affiliation and how religious they are . Christians are more likely than other religious groups in this analysis to say their faith has grown stronger as a result of the pandemic , a feeling that is reported by 56 % of Protestants in the historically black tradition , as well as by four-in-ten evangelicals ( 42 % ) and roughly one-quarter of Catholics ( 27 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 22 % ) .
There is a broad public consensus regarding the causes of the current problems with financial institutions and markets : 79 % say people taking on too much debt has contributed a lot to the crisis , while 72 % say the same about banks making risky loans . Far fewer say weak governmental regulation of financial institutions ( 46 % ) or other factors have contributed a lot to the recent problems .
Smartphone-using teens are more likely to be in daily contact with their closest friend than teens without smartphone access ( 62 % vs. 51 % ) . They are also more likely to have made a friend online : Six-in-ten teens with a smartphone have made at least one friend online , compared with 48 % of those who do not use smartphones . There is also a bit more drama associated with smartphone-using teens . They are more likely to say they have argued with a friend about something that first happened online or via text than those who do not have a smartphone ( 29 % vs. 19 % ) .
Most Americans think scientists should help make food policy ; fewer think food industry leaders should have a major policymaking role . Despite mixed assessments of scientists working on GM food issues , six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 60 % ) say scientists should have a major role in policy issues related to GM foods and 28 % say they should have a minor role . Similar shares of Americans say that small-farm owners and the general public should have a major role in GM food policy . A smaller share of Americans says that food industry leaders ( 42 % ) or elected officials ( 24 % ) should have a major role in policy decisions about GM foods .
The challenges of polling Asian Americans are likely to persist in the foreseeable future , though some trends may make this task easier . Among U.S. adults , Asians are projected to be the third-fastest-growing racial/ethnic group behind Hispanics and multiracial adults . By 2030 , Asians will make up 6.9 % of U.S. adults , and by 2060 , they will make up 9.4 % of the adult population .
Education levels among the nation 's immigrants have been steadily rising since the 1960s , just like the native-born population . While there have been gains across the board , the increases have been most dramatic among immigrants from Asia , Europe and the Middle East and less so among those from Mexico and Central America .
In Nigeria and Kenya , lower but substantial shares have taken each of these steps to prepare for their move . About 11 % of Kenyans and 14 % of Nigerians who plan to migrate in the next five years have taken all three steps to prepare for their move .
Overall , the survey finds little change in attitudes about discrimination against most groups since March . Large majorities continue to say that Muslims ( 83 % ) , gays and lesbians ( 79 % ) , blacks and Hispanics ( 77 % each ) , women ( 68 % ) and Jews ( 66 % ) face a lot or some discrimination in the U.S .
News about the dangers of an antibiotic-resistant staph infection ( MRSA ) caught the public 's attention last week . More than a quarter of Americans paid very close attention to this story and 18 % listed it as the single news story they followed more closely than any other — placing it at the top of the weekly news interest index .
Views about expanding the priesthood were tied to education , with higher levels of support found among people with at least a secondary school education . In Bolivia , for example , 59 % of Catholics with a secondary education or more were in favor of female priests , compared with 42 % among Catholics with less education .
Americans are reluctant to incorporate these types of technologies into their own lives . When asked whether they would or would not personally use specific automation technologies , around six-in-ten U.S. adults say they would not want to ride in a driverless car ( 56 % ) or have a robot caregiver for themselves or a family member ( 59 % ) . Views on applying for a job that uses a computer program to evaluate and select applicants are even more negative : 76 % of Americans say they would not want to apply .
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi 's job rating is somewhat more negative than positive : 40 % approve of her job performance while 46 % disapprove . Still , Pelosi 's job rating is more positive than then-Speaker Paul Ryan 's was two years ago . At similar points during their tenures as speaker , John Boehner and Newt Gingrich had evenly divided job ratings .
About six-in-ten adults ( 59 % ) say being white helps a person 's ability to get ahead in our country these days . Meanwhile , about half or more say being black or Hispanic puts people at a disadvantage . The public is more divided over the impact of being Asian or Native American on a person 's ability to get ahead .
About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of people who are high in religious commitment ( regardless of their particular religious affiliation ) say an implanted device for healthy people would be meddling with nature and crossing a line we should not cross . By contrast , people who are low in religious commitment ( who seldom pray or attend religious services and say religion is not important in their lives ) are much more inclined to consider brain chip implants to be in keeping with other ways that humans have tried to better themselves over time .
1 Two-in-three Latino eligible voters live in just five states . California alone holds roughly a quarter of the nation 's Latino electorate , with 7.9 million Latino eligible voters . Texas is second with 5.6 million , followed by Florida ( 3.1 million ) , New York ( 2.0 million ) and Arizona ( 1.2 million ) . 2 Latinos make up the highest share of eligible voters in New Mexico ( 43 % ) . The other top states are California ( 30 % ) , Texas ( 30 % ) , Arizona ( 24 % ) and Florida ( 20 % ) .
Younger people are much less optimistic that economic conditions will improve compared with older Americans . Nearly seven-in-ten of those ages 65 and older ( 69 % ) think the economy will be better in a year . By contrast , fewer than half ( 42 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 think things will be better , while 34 % expect conditions to be worse in a year . While younger people were slightly less optimistic about the future economy even prior to the current downturn , the age gap is now substantially wider than it was in January .
Younger Americans see their country 's relationship with China as more important than the one with Germany . About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 favor a closer relationship with China . By contrast , 58 % of Americans ages 65 and older prefer a close relationship with Germany .
As in the past , there is extensive public support for increasing federal funding for veterans benefits and education ( 72 % each ) . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) support more government spending for rebuilding the nation 's highways , bridges and roads , while 55 % each favor more funding for Medicare and environmental protection .
Nine months after passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act , views of the sweeping tax law are little changed . More say they disapprove ( 46 % ) rather than approve ( 36 % ) of the law ; about two-in-ten adults ( 18 % ) do not offer an opinion either way .
The Pew Research analysis also finds that English proficiency is greater among Hispanic immigrants with higher levels of education . For example , just 15 % of Hispanic immigrants ages 25 and older who have not completed high school speak English proficiently . That share rises to 32 % among those who have only completed high school . Among those with at least a bachelor 's degree , six-in-ten Hispanic immigrants ( 61 % ) speak only English at home or say they speak English `` very well . ''
The new Census Bureau report also detailed `` some other race '' responses by Hispanic origin groups . About 43.4 % of Guatemalan origin Hispanics selected the category , as did 42.9 % of Salvadorans and 37.7 % of Hondurans , the three highest shares among Hispanic origin groups . By contrast , just 5.2 % of Cubans , 8.1 % of Argentineans and 8.9 % of Uruguayans selected `` some other race . ''
Nearly as many ( 78 % ) correctly identify John F. Kennedy as a Democrat . But Americans are less familiar with the partisan affiliations of earlier presidents and current congressional leaders . Roughly six-in-ten ( 58 % ) know that Franklin Roosevelt was a Democrat , while 55 % correctly identify Abraham Lincoln as a Republican . Comparable majorities know that House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi is a Democrat ( 61 % ) and House Speaker John Boehner is a Republican ( 55 % ) .
The sense that increasing presidential power would be `` too risky '' has grown among Democrats since August , when Barack Obama was still president : While a 66 % majority said giving presidents greater powers would be too risky in August , nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) now say this . Conversely , while 82 % of Republicans expressed concern about increasing presidential powers relative to the other branches of government in August , a smaller majority ( 65 % ) say this today .
Most think human rights organizations are making a difference . When asked how much influence human rights organizations are having on the way things are going in their countries , solid majorities of Indonesians , Kenyans , Mexicans and Indians said either a great deal or a fair amount . Still , no more than 30 % in any of these nations said these groups are having a great deal of influence .
What about neighbors ? 76 % of consistent liberals said racial and ethnic diversity was an important factor in deciding where to live , compared with just 20 % of consistent conservatives . The latter put much more value on where many people in a place share their religion : 57 % called that important , versus just 17 % of consistent liberals .
As Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu prepares to visit President Obama at the White House on Monday , Americans and Israelis continue to hold each other in high regard . A spring 2013 Pew Research Center survey found that an overwhelming majority of Israelis ( 83 % ) have a favorable opinion of the U.S . This represents an 11 percentage point increase since 2011 . At the same time , 57 % of Americans view Israel positively .
Americans are closely divided on the issue of whether the marches will increase public support for science : 44 % think they will help and 44 % think they will make no difference . Another 7 % believe they will hurt public support . Most Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 61 % ) believe the marches and demonstrations held in April will benefit public support for science . By contrast , just 22 % of Republicans and independents who lean to the GOP say the marches will help drive public support for science , while six-in-ten ( 60 % ) of this group believes the marches will have no impact on public support and 13 % say the marches will hurt public support .
Overall , adults who have more apps on their phone , those who have downloaded apps ( as opposed to purchasing a phone that is preloaded with apps ) , those who have downloaded an app recently ( within the past 30 days ) , and those who have paid for an app download are significantly more likely than other adults to actually use the software on their phones .
As the Republican convention gets underway , more Americans express interest in learning about what 's in the GOP platform than in the speeches by either Mitt Romney or his running mate . About half of the public ( 52 % ) is interested in learning about the Republican Party 's platform , while 44 % are interested in Romney 's acceptance speech and about the same percentage ( 46 % ) in Ryan 's convention speech .
Only about a third of blacks say race relations in the U.S. are good . About six-in-ten blacks ( 61 % ) say race relations in the U.S. are generally bad , while just 34 % say relations are generally good . Whites are more split on the state of race relations in the country , with nearly equal shares saying relations are good ( 46 % ) as say they are bad ( 45 % ) . About nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) blacks say the country needs to continue making changes to give blacks equal rights with whites , compared with 53 % of whites . Immediately following the election of President Donald Trump , a far greater share of blacks ( 74 % ) than whites ( 43 % ) said they expected the election would lead to worse race relations .
Even with several major news organizations deciding to reduce or ban its use , the term `` illegal immigrant '' is still the phrase newspapers most often use to describe foreigners living in the United States without proper documentation . But over time , there have been some shifts in the language applied to those at the heart of the immigration debate , as words like `` undocumented '' or `` unauthorized '' have begun showing up more frequently . During all four time periods , the term used most frequently in newspapers was `` illegal immigrant , '' although there was some ebb and flow , according to Pew Research 's LexisNexis search of 19 related terms in almost 9,000 articles . This year , we found the phrase `` illegal immigrant '' accounted for 49 % of the terms examined . It accounted for 30 % of the terms in 2007 , around the time Congress tried and failed to pass immigration reform . And it represented 62 % of terms in 2002 when Congress passed legislation ordering Immigration and Naturalization Service to link their databases together .
At a time when college tuition is rising rapidly—particularly at the nation 's private colleges and universities—students and their parents face the question of whether a more expensive education leads to greater returns later in life . The answer given by those who have graduated from college is that their feelings of personal satisfaction and economic well-being are about the same , no matter which type of institution they attended , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey . Majorities of each group were satisfied with their family life , financial situation and current job . There were no statistically significant differences between the two groups on any of those three measures on overall satisfaction , though private school graduates were somewhat more likely than public school graduates to say they were `` very satisfied '' with their personal financial situation ( 44 % vs. 34 % ) .
Americans ' attitudes toward offensive content online also tend to differ by political affiliation . The survey asked respondents to choose which statement came closer to their view : `` Many people take offensive content they see online too seriously '' or `` offensive content online is too often excused as not a big deal . '' By a 63 % -36 % margin , Republicans say people take offensive online content too seriously . By contrast , Democrats are more divided : 50 % say offensive content is often taken too seriously , while 48 % feel it is too often excused as not a big deal .
In the decade from 2000 to 2010 , the Mexican-American population grew by 7.2 million as a result of births and 4.2 million as a result of new immigrant arrivals . This is a change from the previous two decades when the number of new immigrants either matched or exceeded the number of births .
Even at some schools where students are back on campus , online learning is much more prevalent this year than in previous years . And for many schools , almost all classes are being held virtually . Americans are skeptical that this type of learning provides the same value as in-person instruction . Overall , 30 % of adults say a course taken only online provides an equal educational value compared with a course taken in person in a classroom ; 68 % say it does not . Majorities of Republicans and Democrats express this view , although Democrats are somewhat more likely than Republicans to say online classes provide an equal value ( 33 % vs. 26 % ) . College graduates are among the most likely to say that online classes do not measure up to in-person ones . Among those with a bachelor 's degree or higher , 75 % say online classes do not provide an equal educational value . This compares with 67 % among those with some college education and 64 % for those with a high school diploma or less .
Most , but not all , retailers rely on the holiday season for a significant chunk of their sales . To get a better sense of how important the holidays are , or are n't , we analyzed more than five years ' worth of quarterly financial data from 20 major retail companies , running the gamut from Wal-Mart and Family Dollar to Coach and Ralph Lauren . Since most retailers ' fiscal years do n't align with the calendar year , we adjusted each company 's data to map the fiscal quarter that included the holidays onto the fourth quarter of each calendar year .
A 2012 Pew Research Center survey found that roughly half of Americans ( 51 % ) say that a gay or lesbian person 's sexual orientation can not be changed , while 36 % say it can be changed . In 2003 , opinion on this question was divided , with 42 % saying one 's sexual orientation can be changed and an equal share ( 42 % ) saying it can not .
Partisans also continue to have contrasting expectations for the next generation . Again , overall opinions have changed little since last year . And more people say the future for the next generation of Americans will be worse today ( 48 % ) than did so in either 2009 ( 32 % ) or 2008 ( 34 % ) , during the economic recession . Among members of both parties , more say prospects for the next generation will be worse than better . Among Republicans , 46 % say the future for the next generation will be worse , while 30 % say it will be better and 21 % about the same . Still , this represents a sharp improvement in opinion among Republicans since last year , when 61 % said the future would be worse and just 16 % better ( 18 % said about the same ) .
More broadly , views on trade seem to reflect a public 's general economic mood . Globally , among respondents who think their economy is doing well , a median of 53 % across 24 countries say trade creates jobs and 39 % believe it increases wages . Among those publics who say their economy is doing poorly , just 43 % believe trade generates jobs and 29 % say it boosts wages .
Women continue to outpace men in terms of educational attainment , though both groups are making gains at a fairly similar rate . A larger share of female 25- to 34-year-olds ( 52 % ) had finished college in 2016 than their male counterparts ( 43 % ) .
Globally , people are more dissatisfied than satisfied with the way democracy is working . Across 34 surveyed countries , a median of 52 % are dissatisfied with democracy , compared with 44 % who are satisfied . Only 32 % agree that elected officials care what people like them think ; roughly twice as many ( 64 % ) disagree . Public opinion is divided on whether the state is run for the benefit of all people ( 49 % agree , 50 % disagree ) . However , many still trust and value the voting process , as a median of 67 % agree that voting gives people like them some say about how the government is run .
Previous research suggests that populations with small pools of potential partners – such as people seeking a same-sex partner – are most likely to meet a partner online . The Pew Research Center analysis bears this out . Roughly four-in-ten people in same-sex relationships ( 37 % ) report meeting their partner online , compared with only 11 % of opposite-sex couples . These differences remain after taking age into account .
Foreign-born and U.S.-born Hispanics show significant differences of opinion on some key issues – and not necessarily consistently on one side of the ideological spectrum across the issues . For example , foreign-born Hispanics tend to be more conservative on abortion and same-sex marriage . A majority of the foreign born say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases ( 59 % ) , while the U.S. born are more evenly split ( 46 % say it should be illegal ) . And on same-sex marriage , the foreign born are evenly split on the matter ( 38 % oppose it and 38 % favor it ) , but a clear majority of the U.S. born ( 57 % ) are in favor of allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally .
Indeed , while roughly four-in-ten Israeli Jews ( 42 % ) said that the continued building of settlements helps the security of Israel , three-in-ten ( 30 % ) said the settlements hurt the country 's security , while a quarter ( 25 % ) said they do not affect Israel 's security one way or another . Roughly a year earlier , Israeli Jews were less sanguine about the benefits of settlement building : In 2013 , only 31 % said such construction improved Israel 's security .
More generally , people who report trying alternative medicine instead of conventional medicine see more risk from the MMR vaccine . Alternative medicine is a broad category that includes herbal dietary supplements , acupuncture , chiropractic , energy therapies and others that are not part of what is often called conventional or standard medical care . Some 43 % of Americans who have used alternative medicine instead of conventional treatment say the risk of side effects from the MMR vaccine is medium or high . By comparison , 30 % of those who report never using alternative medicine or using it in conjunction with conventional medicine say the risk of side effects from the vaccine is medium or high .
Between its inception in January 2017 and its final day on Jan. 3 , the GOP-led 115th Congress enacted 442 public laws , the most since the 110th Congress ( 2007 - 09 ) . Of those laws , 69 % were substantive ( as judged by our deliberately generous criteria ) – not much different from the 71 % substantive share achieved by the 114th Congress , in which the Republican-controlled House and Senate faced off against Democratic President Barack Obama . ( The 114th Congress passed 329 laws in total . ) In our regular assessments of Congress ' legislative productivity , we 've cast a wide net regarding what makes a law `` substantive . '' Basically , anything that makes a change in federal law ( however tiny ) or authorizes the spending of taxpayer dollars ( however few ) makes the cut . Besides the measures referred to above on building-renamings , we count laws as `` ceremonial '' if they award medals , designate special days , authorize commemorative coins or otherwise memorialize historic events . ( We exclude entirely `` private laws , '' which typically exempt a single person from a single provision of general law . ) Looking back over the past 30 years , the 101st Congress ( 1989 - 1991 ) passed the most laws in total ( 650 ) and had the lowest percentage of substantive laws ( 63 % ) . That 's because it , like many Congresses before , passed dozens of laws designating special observances – National Tap Dance Day , National Quarter Horse Week , National Library Card Sign-Up Month and the like . That practice diminished over the next few years and was largely ended by the 104th Congress in the mid-1990s . Since then , only one Congress has chalked up a lower share of substantive legislation than the just-ended 115th . That was the 110th , held after Democrats retook the House and Senate in the 2006 midterms during Republican George W. Bush 's final two years as president . Only 64 % of the laws enacted by that Congress were substantive , by our reckoning .
To the extent that people see one gender having more influence when it comes to making important decisions about household finances , men are generally seen as having more influence than women . In 16 of the 34 countries surveyed , more say men have more influence than say women do by a margin of at least 10 percentage points . The gap is particularly wide in Nigeria , where 61 % say men generally have more influence in this area ( compared with 10 % who say women do ) , Turkey ( 54 % vs. 11 % ) , Israel ( 44 % vs. 11 % ) , Lebanon ( 40 % vs. 10 % ) and Sweden ( 37 % vs. 9 % ) . In each of these countries , people are at least four times as likely to say men have more influence as they are to say women do . Among European publics , majorities or pluralities in 12 of 14 countries surveyed say men and women generally have about the same influence in making important decisions about household finances . The only two European countries surveyed where this is not the case are Lithuania and Slovakia , where similar or equal shares say both genders have about the same influence as say men have more influence in this area .
Opposition leader Nawaz Sharif fares better : 63 % express a positive opinion of the Pakistan Muslim League ( PML-N ) leader , down from a year ago when 71 % held this view . The most popular leader tested is former cricket star Imran Khan . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) have a favorable view of the athlete turned politician , up from 52 % in 2010 .
Three years after a record 1.3 million migrants sought asylum in Europe , a majority of people in several European countries say they support taking in refugees who are fleeing violence and war , according to a Pew Research Center survey . However , most people in these countries disapprove of the way the European Union has dealt with the refugee issue .
With the election about 10 months away , a majority of registered voters ( 63 % ) say the issue of which party controls Congress will be a factor in their vote this year . This is a greater percentage than said this at early points in the 2014 , 2010 and 2006 midterm cycles . The share saying partisan control of Congress will matter in their vote is now about as high as it was in the closing weeks of those elections .
Roughly half of Americans ( 51 % ) say the U.S. has a responsibility to accept refugees into the country , while 43 % say it does not , the national survey found . That is changed only slightly from February of last year .
Black Democrats ' negative evaluations of Trump 's job performance extend to views on how his economic policies are affecting the country . Nearly six-in-ten black Democrats ( 57 % ) say that Trump 's economic policies have made economic conditions in the country worse . Smaller shares of white ( 47 % ) and Hispanic ( 43 % ) Democrats say the same .
Overall , about a third of all Americans with children under 18 at home have a gun in their household , including 34 % of families with children younger than 12 . That 's nearly identical to the share of childless adults or those with older children who have a firearm at home .
As a new 34-nation Pew Research Center survey highlights , democracy remains a popular idea among average citizens , but commitment to democratic ideals is not always strong . And many are unhappy with how democracy is working .
On social media , too , most people are gravitating toward social activities over political , religious or commercial ones . Among the minority of sub-Saharan Africans who use social media ( ranging from 43 % in South Africa to 20 % in Tanzania ) , more say they share their views on entertainment-related topics like music , movies and sports than say they post about politics , religion or products they enjoy . Sub-Saharan Africans are more likely to use their mobile devices – whether smartphones or not – for social and entertainment purposes than for information-seeking or career- and commerce-related activities . Across the region , a majority of phone owners are using their devices to send text messages and to take pictures or video . Around four-in-ten phone owners also use their mobile phones to access social networking sites . Another very popular phone-based activity is making or receiving payments . Around six-in-ten mobile phone owners have used their devices for this type of online banking over the past year , ranging from a high of 83 % in Kenya ( where M-Pesa is a dominant force ) to a low of 34 % in Nigeria . Outside of banking , though , relatively few people use their phones for other career and commerce activities , like looking for or applying for jobs . Information-seeking activities are also less popular : Only around a third of mobile phone owners say they have used their mobile device over the past year to get news and information about politics , health or prices and products .
Similarly , Americans who work in the government , nonprofit or education sectors are a bit more skeptical about the future of workforce automation than are Americans who work for a large corporation , medium-sized company or small business . Just 7 % of Americans who work in the government , education or nonprofit sectors expect that robots and computers will definitely take over most human employment in the next 50 years , while 13 % of those who work for a large corporation or small business or medium-sized company are certain that this will occur .
About four-in-ten of all adults in Britain ( 43 % ) , Russia ( 43 % ) , Spain ( 42 % ) , Lithuania ( 39 % ) and Poland ( 39 % ) also say they engage in social networking . Among this group , Russia is the only country where nearly all internet users are on social networking sites . Only 6 % of Russian internet users say they do not go on these sites . In Germany ( 35 % ) , France ( 35 % ) , and China ( 32 % ) , about a third of adults do so . Germany , France , and Japan are the only countries polled where more internet users say they do not go on social networking sites than say they do . While 35 % of Germans use social networking sites , 44 % go online but do not use such sites ; the comparable numbers are 35 % and 38 % in France and 25 % and 33 % in Japan .
The public remains divided over whether or not a way can be found for Israel and an independent Palestinian state to coexist peacefully : 43 % say they think this can happen , while 48 % do not think so . In April , 46 % thought a two-state solution in the Middle East could work , while 44 % disagreed .
About half of Americans ( 49 % ) think at least `` some '' U.S. Muslims are anti-American , greater than the share who say `` just a few '' or `` none '' are anti-American , according to a January 2016 survey . Views on this question have become much more partisan in the last 14 years ( see graphic ) . But most Americans do not see widespread support for extremism among Muslims living in the U.S. , according to a February 2017 survey . Overall , 40 % say there is not much support for extremism among U.S. Muslims , while an additional 15 % say there is none at all . About a quarter say there is a fair amount of support ( 24 % ) for extremism among U.S. Muslims ; 11 % say there is a great deal of support .
Overall , roughly one-third of Americans who identify as Republican or as Republican-leaning independents do not agree with their party on abortion ( 35 % ) , including 12 % who say they agree with the Democratic Party on abortion and 23 % who say they do not agree with either party . Among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , three-in-ten do not agree with their party on abortion , including 7 % who say they agree with the GOP and 22 % who say they do n't agree with either party . ( The same 2019 survey found that roughly a fifth to a third of Americans do n't agree with their party on issues including policies to deal with the economy , health care and illegal immigration . )
Eight-in-ten adults in Denmark and three-in-four in Austria ( 76 % ) , for example , say they pay the church tax – responses that indicate a willingness to make the payment , even though the actual shares of Danes and Austrians who pay church taxes may be lower . In both countries , more than half of respondents ( 76 % in Denmark and 56 % in Austria ) also say religion should be kept separate from government policies .
Overall , a median of 64 % across 32 emerging and developing nations say the internet is a good influence on education , with at least half also seeing it as a good influence on personal relationships ( 53 % ) and the economy ( 52 % ) . People are more mixed on the internet 's effect on politics , with similar proportions saying that the influence is good ( 36 % ) as say it is bad ( 30 % ) .
The Chinese are as upbeat about the Olympics as they are about their national economy . Fully 96 % believe China 's hosting of the games will be a success , and 56 % say it will be very successful . While this survey was in the field , the Olympic torch relay was being hounded by demonstrations in Britain , France , the United States , Argentina and elsewhere , and these protests received considerable coverage in the Western media . However in China , press coverage of the relay might have been more positive , because despite the negative international publicity generated by these events , nearly all of those surveyed think the games will improve China 's global profile – a remarkably high 93 % say the Olympics will help the country 's image around the world . Most Chinese not only see the Olympics as important for their country , they also feel a personal connection to the games . Roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) say the Olympics are important to them personally , and 90 % feel this way in the host city , Beijing .
Currently , 85 % of Democrats say the government is doing very or fairly well in reducing the terror threat , up 14 points since September . About six-in-ten ( 63 % ) Republicans give the government positive ratings ; at that time , just 40 % of Republicans said the government was doing well in addressing the of terrorism .
The debate in other EU member states about the future of the institution may just be getting started . A majority of the Greeks ( 68 % ) and pluralities of the Dutch ( 44 % ) , Germans ( 43 % ) , Italians ( 39 % ) and French ( 39 % ) all want some EU power returned to their national governments . Both the Dutch and the French have a history of holding referendums on major and not-so-major issues , and Euroskeptic parties in both countries have already voiced support for a public vote on their relationship with the EU .
Most Do Not Think Military Campaign Is Going Well . In the new poll , just 30 % say the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria is going very well or fairly well . About twice as many ( 62 % ) say it is going not too well or not at all well . The share giving the military campaign a positive assessment has dipped six points ( from 36 % ) since February .
But the public is divided on the core question shaping the debates in the early period of the Trump administration : Is it possible to cut back environmental regulations and still effectively protect water and air quality ? Some 49 % think it is possible to trim regulations and still protect air and water , while 47 % believe it is not possible to protect those resources with fewer regulations . These views differ widely by political party .
The more extreme an enhancement is , and the more permanent any change is , the less likely people are to embrace it . For example , while 47 % say it would be an appropriate use of synthetic blood substitutes if it results in improvements equal to their own peak abilities , just 28 % of adults say synthetic blood substitutes resulting in speed , strength and stamina `` far above that of any human to date '' would be appropriate .
In all countries , more than half say these companies are having a positive impact , including about seven-in-ten or more in Kenya , Nigeria and Uganda . A median of 67 % across the nations polled say extractive companies are providing jobs for local workers and 59 % believe they contribute to economic growth . At the same time , as is true for the government and nonprofit sectors , people have some concerns about these for-profit industries as well . A median of 61 % believe foreign extractive companies in Africa are causing environmental damage , while about half ( 51 % ) say the mines and oil rigs are unsafe for workers and 45 % say these firms do not pay their share of taxes .
The representation of countries of birth among immigrant eligible voters is different than that among U.S. immigrants overall . For example , immigrant eligible voters born in Mexico account for 16 % of all foreign-born eligible voters , far below their 25 % share among all immigrants living in the U.S. By contrast , immigrant Filipino eligible voters make up 6 % of foreign-born eligible voters but make up 4 % of all U.S. immigrants . These gaps in representation among these immigrant populations reflect differences in naturalization rates .
Nearly half ( 46 % ) of American adults are smartphone owners as of February 2012 , an increase of 11 percentage points over the 35 % of Americans who owned a smartphone last May . As in 2011 , our definition of a smartphone owner includes anyone who said yes to either of the following two questions : Taken together , just over half of cell owners ( 53 % ) said yes to one or both of these questions and are classified as smartphone owners . Since 88 % of US adults are now cell phone owners , that means that a total of 46 % of all American adults are smartphone users . Two in five adults ( 41 % ) own a cell phone that is not a smartphone , meaning that smartphone owners are now more prevalent within the overall population than owners of more basic mobile phones .
Republicans generally have a positive view of potential increases in tariffs on steel and aluminum imports . About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say they would be good for the country , while just 26 % say such tariff increases would be bad for the country . Democratic opinion is the opposite : Only 22 % of Democrats think increasing steel and aluminum tariffs would be good for the U.S. , while 63 % say they would be bad for the country .
There are 25 women serving in the U.S. Senate , a historic high . Of these , 17 are Democrats and eight are Republicans . The first woman in the Senate was Rebecca Felton ( D-Ga. ) , who was appointed to the seat as a political maneuver in 1922 and served just one day . Nancy Kassebaum ( R-Kan. ) , who served in the Senate from 1978 to 1997 , was the first female senator who was not initially elected to fill an unexpired congressional term .
And 10 % say they very closely followed news about a series of suicide bombings in Russia ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The stories accounted for 4 % of coverage .
Many also followed reports about preparations for the second wave of the swine flu this fall , but not at the interest levels seen during the first wave in early May . Still , large majorities do know several key facts about the H1N1 virus and the vaccine being developed to limit its spread . About seven-in-ten correctly answer questions about who is most likely to be infected by the virus , how serious most cases are expected to be and whether people will need a separate vaccine for the seasonal flu . With repeated warnings in the media and from government officials about the upcoming flu season , a large majority ( 69 % ) knows that experts think most cases of the swine flu are not life-threatening . A similar proportion ( 67 % ) correctly says that the illness appears more likely to infect children and young adults than older adults . And 71 % know that the government says the vaccine will need to be administered in addition to – not instead of – a separate vaccine for the usual seasonal flu .
The Conservative and Labour parties both received more negative statements than positive on Twitter . They also drew the most attention among the six . There were roughly 5 million tweets about the Labour Party : 48 % of the mentions carried a negative tone , 27 % positive and 26 % neutral . The sentiment around the incumbent Conservative Party ( discussed in 3.5 million tweets ) was even more negative – 72 % of the assertions were negative , compared with just 10 % that were positive and 18 % that were neutral .
Americans and Germans overwhelmingly agree that their country should do more than less wealthy countries to help solve global problems . Two-thirds or more of both Americans ( 68 % ) and Germans ( 73 % ) say their country should do more to help solve global problems than less wealthy countries . Only about a quarter of Germans ( 24 % ) and three-in-ten Americans disagree with this sentiment . In the U.S. , there are sizable partisan differences : 79 % of Democrats say the U.S. should contribute more to solving global problems than less wealthy nations , while 49 % of Republicans agree . In Germany , supporters of the Greens are most enthusiastic about helping solve global problems . But supporters of the SPD and CDU/CSU are also in favor of Germany contributing more than less wealthy nations . AfD supporters are strongly opposed to Germany doing more to solve world problems than less wealthy countries ; just 36 % support this .
Americans see priorities other than a moon or Mars landing as more pressing for NASA . About six-in-ten ( 63 % ) say one of the organization 's top priorities should be using space to monitor key parts of Earth 's climate system . About four-in-ten or more said other top priorities should include conducting basic scientific research to increase knowledge of space ( 47 % ) and developing technologies that could be adapted for other uses ( 41 % ) .
Views of Obama 's accomplishments in office fall between those of George W. Bush and Clinton . By more than two-to-one , the public thought Bush 's failures would outweigh his accomplishments ( 64 % vs. 24 % ) , while the inverse was true for Clinton ( 27 % vs. 60 % ) .
While the media 's top story last week was the Iraq policy debate , the public remained focused on the aftermath of the shootings at Virginia Tech University . Fully 43 % of Americans followed news about the shootings very closely , and 46 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other last week . News coverage of the Virginia Tech shootings fell off dramatically from the previous week : 7 % of the news coverage across all media sectors was devoted to the story last week , compared to 51 % the week the shootings took place . The second most closely followed news story , far behind the shootings , was the situation in Iraq — 27 % of the public followed events in Iraq very closely and 15 % said this was the news story they followed more closely than any other last week . Over the past month , the public has consistently expressed greater interest in the war itself than in the policy debate
On both questions there are differences by political affiliation and ideology . Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say that COVID-19 has changed how journalists report the news . They are also more likely than Republicans to believe that the outbreak has done financial harm to most news organizations .
In today 's Poland , most adults say they are willing to accept Jews as fellow citizens , neighbors and family members , according to a Pew Research Center survey of Poland and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe conducted in 2015 and 2016 . For instance , about seven-in-ten or more Poles say they would accept Jews as neighbors or fellow citizens . At the same time , however , a sizable minority of Polish adults take the opposite position . Almost one-in-five Poles ( 18 % ) say they would not be willing to accept Jews as citizens of their country , and a similar share ( 20 % ) say they would not want Jewish neighbors . Nearly a third of Polish adults ( 30 % ) say they would not accept a Jewish person as a member of their family . Polish views are more negative when it comes to two other minority groups in Europe : Muslims and Roma ( sometimes called Romani or Gypsies , a term some consider pejorative ) . Roughly four-in-ten or more Polish adults say they would not want Muslims to be citizens of their country ( 41 % ) , their neighbors ( 43 % ) or members of their family ( 55 % ) . Likewise , at least three-in-ten Poles would not accept Roma as fellow citizens ( 30 % ) , neighbors ( 38 % ) or family members ( 49 % ) .
Most immigrants ( 77 % ) are in the country legally , while almost a quarter are unauthorized , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on census data adjusted for undercount . In 2017 , 45 % were naturalized U.S. citizens .
There is broad support among Americans ( 69 % ) for automatically registering all eligible citizens to vote . By contrast , fewer ( 42 % ) support removing people from registration lists if they have not recently voted or confirmed their registration .
Voters supporting Donald Trump are more likely than Hillary Clinton supporters to report having received a pre-recorded phone call from one of the campaigns ( 23 % vs. 13 % ) , while Clinton supporters are more likely than Trump supporters to say they have received an email ( 32 % vs 26 % ) . Nearly identical percentages of voters supporting Trump and Clinton report having received a piece of printed mail ( 25 % of Trump supporters , 22 % of Clinton supporters ) or a phone call from a live person ( 11 % of supporters from each campaign ) .
Nearly eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 78 % ) oppose the federal government providing a universal basic income of about $ 1,000 per person , with 62 % strongly opposed . A smaller share of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 66 % ) favor a UBI , with just a third supporting the proposal strongly .
Voters who back Clinton were divided on other aspects of the nation , however . While 37 % thought security from terrorism in the U.S. has gotten better since 2008 , about as many ( 41 % ) said it has stayed about the same , and 22 % thought it has gotten worse .
To look at these results more systematically , we created an index that combines responses from these characteristics . The index ranges from 0 to 6 , where 0 is the most negative view of Americans and 6 is the most positive view of Americans . Those with more positive views of Americans are scored as 4 or above and those with more negative views of Americans are scored as 2 or below ( 3 is considered neutral ) . We then took the percentage of people above or below 3 in each country to create a scale of perceptions of the American people .
Overall , 69 % of voters who are closely following reports about corruption say most members should not be reelected in 2006 , far more antagonism than among people who are less engaged in the story . And among independents , these feelings are even stronger . Fully 77 % of independent voters who are closely tracking this news story believe most members should be voted out this fall .
One-in-five newsroom employees live in New York , Los Angeles or Washington , D.C . The financial , entertainment and political capitals of the U.S. are home to a disproportionately large share of the nation 's newsroom employees . About one-in-five newsroom employees ( 22 % ) live in these metro areas , which , by comparison , are home to 13 % of all U.S. workers , according to a Center analysis of Census Bureau data covering the period from 2013 to 2017 .
A Pew Research survey in May of 2011 found that those 65 and older had a negative reaction to Ryan 's plan to change Medicare : 51 % opposed the plan ( including 43 % who opposed it strongly ) compared with only 25 % who favored the plan . People under the age of 50 offered far more support than those over 50 for Ryan 's Medicare plan .
Graduates in STEM fields accounted for at least 70 % of OPT approvals from India , Iran , Bangladesh and Sri Lanka from 2012 to 2015 . Of the 72,151 from India employed under OPT , 84 % had STEM degrees , the highest percentage of any origin country . Iran ( 79 % ) , Bangladesh ( 74 % ) and Sri Lanka ( 70 % ) also had high shares of STEM graduates . Among those from China , 54 % went to STEM graduates .
Just over half of all Hispanic adults in the U.S. worry that they , a family member or a close friend could be deported , a new nationwide survey of Latinos by the Pew Hispanic Center has found . Nearly two-thirds say the failure of Congress to enact an immigration reform bill has made life more difficult for all Latinos . Smaller numbers ( ranging from about one-in-eight to one-in-four ) say the heightened attention to immigration issues has had a specific negative effect on them personally . These effects include more difficulty finding work or housing ; less likelihood of using government services or traveling abroad ; and more likelihood of being asked to produce documents to prove their immigration status .
More broadly , 64 % of veterans say the government has given them about as much help as it should have . Three-in-ten say the government has given them too little help . Post-9/11 veterans are more likely than those from previous eras to say the government has given them less help than it should have ( 43 % vs. 27 % ) .
These differences starkly frame a key set of disputes in the presidential election . Fully 56 % of Clinton supporters say they care a great deal about the issue of global climate change . An additional 34 % say they care some .
Republican-leaning independents favor expanding the border wall , though by a smaller margin than Republicans identifiers . GOP leaners favor substantially expanding the wall along the U.S.-Mexico border by roughly three-to-one ( 75 % to 23 % ) . Among those who affiliate with the Republican Party , the margin is nearly eight-to-one ( 87 % to 11 % ) . As with the border wall , Democratic-leaning independents are more likely to view increased tariffs negatively ( 75 % say they will be bad for the U.S. ) than Republican-leaning independents are to view them positively ( 66 % say they will be good ) . On taxes , two-thirds of GOP leaners approve of the tax law , while an identical share of Democratic leaners disapprove .
When it comes to how men view themselves , about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they are very manly or masculine , 54 % describe themselves as somewhat masculine and 15 % say they are not too or not at all masculine . Again , race is linked to views about this : 49 % of black men consider themselves to be very masculine , compared with 34 % of Hispanic men and 28 % of white men . Views also vary by party , with Republican men more likely than Democratic men to describe themselves as very masculine ( 39 % vs. 23 % ) .
Most Americans consider their future health within their grasp – if only they eat and exercise adequately . Roughly seven-in-ten adults say that healthy eating habits ( 72 % ) and getting enough physical exercise ( 71 % ) are very important for improving a person 's chances of living a long and healthy life .
The unrest following the death of Freddie Gray was the top story last week , with a third of the public ( 33 % ) saying they followed developments in Baltimore `` very closely . '' Smaller shares followed news about the aftermath of the earthquake in Nepal ( 22 % ) and reports on the condition of the U.S. economy ( 20 % ) very closely . Similar shares tracked news about the Supreme Court hearing a case on same-sex marriage ( 18 % ) and the candidates for the 2016 presidential election ( 16 % ) .
While conflicts between Democrats and Republicans are perceived as strong by the vast majority of Americans , partisans generally agree on this point . Nine-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 90 % ) say there are strong or very strong partisan conflicts , as do roughly as many Republicans and Republican leaners ( 87 % ) . Democrats are substantially more likely than Republicans to see strong conflicts between blacks and whites and between the rich and the poor . About three-quarters ( 74 % ) of Democrats and Democratic leaners see strong or very strong conflicts between blacks and whites , compared with slightly more than half ( 54 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaners . And while about seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 69 % ) see strong or very strong conflicts between the rich and the poor , fewer than half of Republicans and GOP leaners ( 44 % ) agree .
Overall , 36 % of U.S. adults say their family has achieved the American dream , while another 46 % say they are `` on their way '' to achieving it , according to an August survey by Pew Research Center . ( The survey asked people about the `` American dream , '' as they define it . ) People who say they have already achieved the American dream are generally older , more affluent and better-educated than those who say they are on their way to achieving the American dream and those who say it 's out of reach .
For example , results from this survey show that people 's comfort with or likelihood of engaging with the contact tracing and isolation process ( speak , share , quarantine ) rises with increased awareness of contact tracing . Some 63 % of those who had seen or heard a great deal about contact tracing as of July say they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three parts of the contact tracing effort that we explore here : that is , speaking with a public health official by phone or text message , sharing names of contacts and names of locations or location data , and quarantining . In contrast , 35 % of those who have seen or heard not too much say they would do the same , and only 29 % of those who 've seen or heard nothing at all say this . Finally , those who think others often pretend to be someone else to steal others ' personal information are less likely to be comfortable or likely to engage with these key contract tracing and isolation steps . Roughly four-in-ten of those who say that people often pretend to be someone else to steal others ' personal information say they are also comfortable or likely to engage with the entire process , compared with about half of those who say people sometimes do this ( 52 % ) or rarely or never do this ( 51 % ) .
About two-thirds of Hispanics with darker skin colors ( 64 % ) report they have experienced discrimination or been treated unfairly regularly or from time to time , compared with half of those with a lighter skin tone . These differences in experiences with discrimination hold even after controlling for characteristics such as gender , age , education and whether they were born in the U.S. or abroad .
Americans are split on the acceptability of using cellphone data to trace people 's movements . About half of Americans ( 52 % ) say it would be at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in order to understand how the virus may be spreading , according to the April survey . Still , 48 % of U.S. adults find this practice to be at least somewhat unacceptable . There is far less support when Americans are asked about the government using cellphones to track people 's locations to ensure they are complying with social distancing recommendations : 62 % say this is somewhat or very unacceptable , while just 37 % say it is somewhat or very acceptable .
All told , 24 million U.S. children younger than 18 are living with an unmarried parent . Most ( 15 million ) are living with a solo mother . In comparison , 5 million live with cohabiting parents and 3 million live with a solo father . In 1968 – the first year for which these data are publicly available – 9 million children were living with an unmarried parent , 8 million of whom had a solo mom . The rise in U.S. children living with either cohabiting or solo parents is due in part to long-term declines in marriage , as well as increases in births outside of marriage . But the likelihood of a child – even one born to two married parents – spending part of their childhood in an unmarried parent household is on the rise . Increases in divorce mean that more than one-in-five children born within a marriage will experience a parental breakup by age 9 , as will more than half of children born within a cohabiting union . The share of children who are living with an unmarried parent varies by race and ethnicity . More than half ( 58 % ) of black children are living with an unmarried parent – 47 % with a solo mom . At the same time , 36 % of Hispanic children are living with an unmarried parent , as are 24 % of white children . The share of Asian children living with unmarried parents is markedly lower ( 13 % ) .
Another sign of the importance of the Bible to African Americans is their participation in prayer and scripture study groups . ( Our question did not distinguish between the two types of groups . ) Across religions , black people in the U.S. are more likely to take part in prayer or scripture study groups at least weekly ( 39 % ) than are whites ( 22 % ) and Hispanics ( 27 % ) . And people in the historically black Protestant tradition are as likely to do this ( 44 % ) as those in the evangelical tradition ( 44 % ) and more likely to do this than are Catholics ( 17 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 19 % ) . They are less likely to participate in prayer and scripture study groups weekly than are Mormons ( 71 % ) and Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 85 % ) .
Views of Latino officers on fatal incidents and the ensuing protests mirror those of white officers . Roughly seven-in-ten Latino and white officers ( 72 % of each group ) say recent fatal encounters between blacks and the police are isolated incidents , rather than signs of a broader problem between blacks and the police .
More than half of smartphone owners say they get news alerts on their phones , but few get these alerts frequently . Some 55 % of smartphone owners say they ever get news alerts on their phones ' screens , according to a 2016 Pew Research Center survey . However , few users say they receive these types of alerts often , with just 13 % of smartphone owners reporting doing this . While smartphones are becoming more integrated into our lives , many users are n't taking the necessary steps to secure their devices . A 2016 Pew Research Center survey found that 28 % of U.S. smartphone owners say they do not use a screen lock or other features to secure their phone . Although a majority of smartphone users say they have updated their phone 's apps or operating system , around four-in-ten say they only update when it 's convenient for them . But some smartphone users forgo updating their phones altogether : 14 % say they never update their phone 's operating system , while 10 % say they do n't update the apps on their phone .
The survey 's most widely accepted use of genetic intervention of animals involves mosquitoes . Seven-in-ten Americans ( 70 % ) believe that genetically engineering mosquitoes to prevent their reproduction and therefore the spread of some mosquito-borne diseases would be an appropriate use of technology , while about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) see the use of genetic engineering for this purpose as taking technology too far .
Among Christian groups , 61 % of those who are members of the historically black Protestant tradition ( more than half of all black Americans ) read scripture at least weekly , similar to the level seen among those in the evangelical Protestant tradition ( 63 % ) . In addition , those in the historically black Protestant tradition are much more likely than Catholics ( 25 % ) and mainline Protestants ( 30 % ) to say they read scripture at least weekly , though less likely than Jehovah 's Witnesses ( 88 % ) and Mormons ( 77 % ) .
Substantial majorities of internet users are able to correctly answer questions about some common technology platforms and everyday internet usage terms . Around three-quarters know that a megabyte is bigger than a kilobyte , roughly seven in ten are able to identify pictures corresponding to terms like `` captcha '' and `` advanced search , '' and 66 % know that a `` wiki '' is a tool that allows people to modify online content in collaboration with others . A substantial majority of online adults do not use Twitter , but knowledge of Twitter conventions is fairly widespread nonetheless : 82 % of online Americans are aware that hashtags are most commonly used on the social networking platform , and 60 % correctly answer that the service limits tweets to 140 characters . On the other hand , relatively few internet users are familiar with certain concepts that underpin the internet and other modern technological advances . Only one third ( 34 % ) know that Moore 's Law relates to how many transistors can be put on a microchip , and just 23 % are aware that `` the Internet '' and `` the World Wide Web '' do not , in fact , refer to the same thing . Many online Americans also struggle with key facts relating to early—and in some cases , more recent—technological history . Despite an Oscar-winning movie ( The Social Network ) about the story of Facebook 's founding , fewer than half of internet users ( 42 % ) are able to identify Harvard as the first university to be on the site ; and only 36 % correctly selected 2007 as the year the first iPhone was released . The Mosaic web browser is an especially poorly-remembered pioneer of the early Web , as just 9 % of online Americans are able to correctly identify Mosaic as the first widely popular graphical web browser .
Beyond the racial divisions in immediate reactions to the grand jury decisions , blacks and whites also diverge in opinions about future relations between local police forces and minorities in communities around the country . About half of blacks ( 52 % ) expect relations between local police and minorities to get worse over the next year , while just 16 % see relations improving ; 31 % expect them to stay about the same . Among whites , 34 % say relations will worsen , while 43 % expect them to stay about the same .
Researchers Ronald J.O . Flores and Arun Peter Lobo call it integration without blacks . In the past 40 years they found nearly a three-fold increase in the share of integrated New York City neighborhoods with a mix of whites , Hispanics and Asians but few , if any , blacks .
Black Americans are far more likely than the other two groups to feel that the misunderstanding is based on their race or some other demographic trait . Among black adults who think the news media do not understand people like them , about a third ( 34 % ) say the main way they are misunderstood is their personal characteristics . This is far higher than the 10 % of white adults and 17 % of Hispanic adults who say the same . White Americans , on the other hand , are far more likely than the other groups to say the problem stems from political misunderstandings . Of white adults who say news organizations misunderstand them , nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) say it 's mostly based on their political views . About a quarter of Hispanic Americans say the same , and both groups are higher than black Americans ( 15 % ) .
Most people prefer America over China as the world 's leading power . While many people believe China currently is the world 's top economic power , a median of 63 % across the nations surveyed say having the U.S. as the world 's leading power would be better for the world . In contrast , just 19 % say a world in which China was the leading power would be better . In the Asia-Pacific region , more prefer U.S. leadership over China . Preference for America is particularly high among China 's nearest neighbors : 81 % of Japanese , 77 % of Filipinos and 73 % of South Koreans favor Washington 's leadership over that of Beijing .
Support for the European Union may be rebounding just in time for the European Parliament elections , according to a new survey of seven EU nations by the Pew Research Center . After a dramatic decline in the wake of the euro crisis , EU favorability is now on the rise in France , the United Kingdom , and Germany . And faith in one of the EU 's founding principles – that European economic integration is good for their own country – is up in the UK , Poland and Germany . These are some of the findings from a new Pew Research Center survey of 7,022 people in seven European Union member countries – France , Germany , Greece , Italy , Poland , Spain and the United Kingdom – conducted from March 17 to April 9 , 2014 .
Public knowledge of news events also varies widely . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) knew that as part of his revised Iraq strategy , President Bush planned to increase U.S. military forces in the country . But only one-in-four Americans ( 24 % ) are aware that both houses of Congress passed legislation to increase the minimum wage and 34 % knew that Congress voted to raise the minimum wage to $ 7.25 an hour .
Around three-quarters of Americans say the Chinese government 's initial handling of the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan contributed either a great deal ( 51 % ) or a fair amount ( 27 % ) to the global spread of the virus . Republicans are particularly critical : 73 % believe China 's early handling of the pandemic contributed a great deal to its spread , compared with 38 % of Democrats who say the same . Older people , too , are especially likely to lay the blame on China .
Roughly six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 62 % ) say climate change is currently affecting their local community either a great deal or some , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . This finding is consistent with a 2018 Center survey , in which 59 % of Americans said global climate change was affecting their local community at least some .
Their views also closely align with those of Hispanic users . For example , about half or more of Black and Hispanic adults who use social media say that these platforms are very or somewhat important to them for finding others who share their views and getting involved with political or social issues that are important to them , compared with about four-in-ten White users , according to June 2020 data . Similarly , about half of Black and Hispanic users say these sites are personally important to them when it comes to giving them a venue to express their political opinions , compared with smaller shares of White users ( 34 % ) who say the same .
There are significant differences by party and ideology in views of all three leaders , however views of Netanyahu are the most polarized . By 50 % to 22 % , more Republicans and Republican leaners view Netanyahu favorably than unfavorably ( 28 % do not offer a rating ) . Views are especially positive among conservative Republicans . Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , more view Netanyahu unfavorably ( 45 % ) than favorably ( 21 % ) , while 34 % can not rate him . Liberal Democrats hold more negative views of Netanyahu than conservative and moderate Democrats .
Outlets have several options for reaching their consumers , including apps , newsletters , podcasts and aggregation platforms like Apple News or Flipboard . The use of those different tools varies across digital-native news outlets . In a Pew Research Center audit of 37 outlets conducted in mid-2019 , just under half of these highest-traffic digital-native news outlets ( 46 % ) have apps for at least one of the two main mobile platforms ( iOS and Android ) . This is down from the 2018 figure of 57 % , which drew from a somewhat different group of sites . Those outlets that do have apps tend to offer them for both platforms : About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) have apps for both platforms , while 5 % have just an iOS app ( down from 23 % among the 2018 group of sites ) . None only offer an Android app .
A majority of GOP voters ( 56 % ) say they would be more likely to support a candidate who wants to end federal funding for Planned Parenthood ; just 18 % would be less likely to support such a candidate . About half ( 53 % ) say they would be more likely to back a candidate who wants to deploy U.S. ground forces to fight ISIS ( 22 % less likely ) . Opinion among possible GOP primary voters is more divided over a candidate who wants to deport all immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally ( 43 % more likely , 29 % less likely ) or wants to compromise with members of the Democratic Party ( 41 % more likely , 27 % less likely ) . And nearly as many Republican voters say they would be less likely ( 34 % ) as more likely ( 31 % ) to support a candidate who wants to raise taxes on wealthy Americans ; 34 % say this would not be a major factor .
The patterns in support for Trump also have not changed much . More men ( 44 % ) than women ( 36 % ) approve of Trump 's job performance , though majorities of both men and women disapprove .
Newsroom employees are also more likely than workers overall to be male . About six-in-ten newsroom employees ( 61 % ) are men , compared with 53 % of all workers . When combining race , ethnicity and sex , almost half ( 47 % ) of newsroom employees are non-Hispanic white men , compared with about a third ( 34 % ) of workers overall .
The public has very different reactions to the recent grand jury decisions in two police-related deaths that have sparked protests in cities across the country . By 50 % to 37 % , Americans say a grand jury made the right decision not to charge former Ferguson , Mo. , police officer Darren Wilson in the death of Michael Brown . In the Garner case , 28 % say race was a major factor , 16 % say it was a minor factor , while 39 % say it was not a factor ; 17 % express no opinion about the impact of race in the Garner decision , which was announced Dec. 3 . ( Questions about the Garner decision were asked Dec. 4 - 7 . )
The six-party talks on North Korea – involving the United States , South Korea , North Korea , China , Japan and Russia – slated to begin Aug. 27 in Beijing reflect global public concern that the regime in Pyongyang poses a serious threat to Asian stability . But U.S. efforts to defuse the North Korean crisis take place against a backdrop of rising anti-Americanism in South Korea and occur at a time when fewer South Koreans show concern about the threat posed by their northern neighbor than do Americans , Australians and many Europeans .
Currently , 41 % of the public agrees with Trump on `` all or nearly all '' or many of the issues facing the country , while 57 % agree with him on just a few issues or virtually none . In August , just 33 % said they agreed with Trump on many or all issues .
The number of assaults against Muslims in the United States rose significantly between 2015 and 2016 , easily surpassing the modern peak reached in 2001 , the year of the September 11 terrorist attacks , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new hate crimes statistics from the FBI . In 2016 , there were 127 reported victims of aggravated or simple assault , compared with 91 the year before and 93 in 2001 .
The top 20 NPR-affiliated public radio stations ( by listenership ) had on average a total weekly listenership of about 11 million in 2018 , about the same as in 2017 . ( This includes listeners of NPR programming as well as original or other syndicated content aired on these stations . )
While there was less media coverage of the immigration debate last week than the previous week , public interest remained consistent . Roughly a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) followed news about immigration very closely , and 13 % listed this as their most closely followed story .
When it comes to whether the U.S. or China is having a positive or negative influence on each country 's economic conditions , though , publics on balance are somewhat more approving of China 's impact . A median of 48 % say China is having a positive impact on economic conditions in their country , compared with 42 % who say the same of the U.S .
Remittance flows decreased worldwide for a second consecutive year in 2016 , the first back-to-back decline in over three decades , according to recently released data from the World Bank . Remittances to Latin America and the Caribbean , however , rose to a record high . Globally , migrants sent an estimated $ 574 billion to their home countries in 2016 , a 1.4 % drop from 2015 . But in Latin America and the Caribbean – together making up a region where many people say economic conditions are bad – remittances rose to $ 74.3 billion , a 7.4 % increase from the previous year ( $ 69.2 billion ) . Europe was the only other region in the world to see an increase , and it was a much smaller one ( up 0.9 % ) .
According to the new survey , which was taken before Trump 's inauguration and the reported rise in deportration concerns , Hispanics are split in their concern about deportation . About half ( 47 % ) of Hispanic adults , regardless of their immigration status , say they worry `` a lot '' or `` some '' that they themselves , a family member or a close friend , could be deported , while 52 % say they are worried `` not at all '' or `` not much . ''
While events in Iraq dominated public interest last week , news about a pregnant Ohio woman , Jessie Davis , who was missing and later found dead drew a large audience . Nearly a quarter of the public ( 23 % ) followed the Davis story very closely and the same percentage said this was the story they followed most closely — making it the second most closely followed story for the week . Davis 's disappearance and murder drew much greater interest among women than men . It was the top story for women overall ( 31 % of women listed this as their top story , while 22 % listed Iraq ) . By contrast , men were much more focused on Iraq . Just 15 % of men listed the Davis murder as their top story of the week , while twice as many ( 30 % ) cited Iraq . Overall , the national news media devoted 5 % of its coverage to the Davis story , making it the week 's fourth most heavily covered story ( behind the 2008 campaign , the situation in Iraq , and the conflict between rival Palestinian groups ) . However , cable news devoted 15 % of the newshole to the Davis story , making it the second most heavily covered story on cable for the week .
Critiques of Trump 's response run in the opposite direction . About half ( 52 % ) say either that Trump has not taken the risks seriously enough ( 23 % ) or that he has n't taken them seriously at all ( 29 % ) ; 37 % say he 's gotten the risks about right . Views of how Trump , Democratic leaders and the news media have responded to the risks of the coronavirus are highly partisan . However , there is bipartisan agreement that officials at the CDC have responded appropriately : 64 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners and 63 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say CDC officials have gotten the risks of the coronavirus about right . Roughly three-quarters of Republicans ( 76 % ) say the news media have exaggerated the risks of the coronavirus , including 53 % who say they have greatly exaggerated them . While Democrats are less likely than Republicans to say this , many do criticize the news media in this regard : 49 % of Democrats believe the media have exaggerated the coronavirus risks , compared with 41 % who think they 've gotten them about right .
These are among the findings of a new survey by Pew Research Center , conducted March 3 to 29 , 2020 , among 1,000 adults in the U.S . The survey also finds that younger people , who have historically been more positive than older Americans toward China , now increasingly hold negative views of the country and are more prone to see it as a threat to the U.S. than in previous years . Older Americans , however , still take a more negative stance than their younger compatriots on most aspects of the U.S.-China relationship . Across demographic groups , negative views of China abound . Roughly six-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents have unfavorable views of China , as do roughly seven-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . Those with a college degree are just as likely as those with less than a college degree to hold negative views of China ; roughly two-thirds of each group voice this opinion . Older Americans , those ages 50 and older , are more likely than those ages 18 to 29 to have unfavorable views of China . This has been the case every year since the Center first asked the question 15 years ago . But while half or more of those 50 and older have held negative views of China since 2012 , this is the first year in which more than half of younger Americans also have an unfavorable opinion . Among this age group , negative views have roughly doubled since the question was first asked .
As noted earlier , among the challenges confronting their country , Mexicans most frequently name crime ( 80 % ) and cartel-related violence ( 77 % ) as very big problems . Roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) see illegal drugs in the same light . Most ( 69 % ) also describe economic problems as a major challenge . Indeed , when asked specifically about rising prices and lack of job opportunities , majorities ( 74 % and 70 % , respectively ) say these are very big problems in Mexico today . Slightly smaller numbers place corruption ( 65 % ) and terrorism ( 62 % ) in this category , while fewer than six-in-ten ( 56 % ) characterize pollution as a very big problem . Just half say people leaving the country for jobs elsewhere is a major issue .
In Turkey , 79 % of Muslims who observe the five daily prayers ( salah ) that are required under Islam say life is better for people like them compared with 50 years ago . In contrast , only about half ( 49 % ) of Turkish Muslims who pray seldom or never at all see the same progress . These divergent views may in part reflect differences in opinion about President Recep Erdogan and his religiously conservative AKP party . In Nigeria – home to both Muslims and Christians , but now governed by an elected Muslim leader – Muslims are much more enthusiastic about their country 's progress . Nearly three times as many Nigerian Muslims as Christians ( 62 % vs. 22 % ) say life is better today compared with 50 years ago . In Israel , 50 years after the Jewish State was victorious in the Six-Day War against a coalition of Arab nations , Israeli Jews are far more convinced than Israeli Arabs that life today is better for people like them . Nearly six-in-ten Jews in Israel say life has improved , compared with only a third of Israeli Arabs who see similar progress .
The 29 % of Democrats who use the platform are more liberal and less inclined to say the party should elect a candidate who seeks common ground with Republicans than are Democrats who are not on Twitter . They also express different preferences for who should be party 's 2020 nominee . Differences between Democrats on and off Twitter extend beyond ideology . About two-thirds of Democrats who do not use Twitter ( 65 % ) say it is more important for a Democratic candidate to seek common ground with Republicans , even if it means giving up some things Democrats want . A smaller share of Twitter-using Democrats ( 54 % ) take this view ; 45 % prefer a candidate who will push hard for policies Democrats want , even if it makes it much harder to get some things done .
While there are sizable differences in opinion on this issue by racial and ethnic group , religious group and political ideology , there are , at most , modest differences among different age groups . Maynard 's generation is no more supportive of such laws than are older Americans : 45 % of those ages 18 - 29 approve of assisted-suicide laws , while 54 % oppose them .
Despite its recent drop in economic growth and rise in unemployment and inflation , nearly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) Czechs approved of the change from a state-controlled to a free market economy in the post-communist period . Of the other publics surveyed in the region , only east Germans ( 82 % ) rivaled Czechs in their support for free markets .
Women and men in both political parties believe recent sexual harassment allegations primarily reflect widespread societal problems . Two-thirds of Americans overall ( 66 % ) attribute the allegations mainly to widespread problems in society , while just 28 % of adults attribute them mainly to incidents of individual misconduct , according to a survey conducted in November and December . While majorities of men and women and Democrats and Republicans see the allegations as reflective of societal problems , women are more likely than men to hold this view ( 71 % vs. 60 % ) . Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are also somewhat more likely to say this than Republicans and Republican leaners ( 70 % vs. 61 % ) .
As the United Nations opens its 68th General Assembly session , publics around the world continue to have a positive impression of the international organization . Clear majorities in 22 of the 39 countries surveyed say they have a favorable view of the UN , including thumbs-up from Security Council permanent members Britain , France and the U.S. Ratings for the UN are on balance favorable in Russia . But the Chinese are divided in their opinion . However , views trend negatively in key Middle Eastern publics , including Israel , the Palestinian territories , Jordan and Turkey . Overall , a median of 58 % across the 39 countries surveyed express favorable views of the UN , with just 27 % holding an unfavorable opinion . South Koreans express the highest support ( 84 % ) . Ban Ki-moon , who heads the UN , is South Korean . Meanwhile , roughly eight-in-ten Indonesians and Filipinos approve of the international body . Support is also high in Africa , and most of Europe and Latin America .
Younger voters are less likely than older voters to say the 2018 outcome really matters within both party coalitions . But Democratic voters ages 18 to 34 ( 65 % ) are more likely than their young Republican counterparts ( 51 % ) to select the highest importance option on the four-point scale .
Early in the course of the pandemic , the health impacts were felt most severely in dense urban centers . From March to May , congressional districts in the most urbanized parts of the country were experiencing about five times as many deaths on average compared with those in the least dense parts of the country , and in some places this disparity was much larger . However , by the summertime the urban-rural split had largely disappeared , and over the last several months , those districts with small shares of residents in densely populated places have been experiencing twice as many deaths as those in the parts of the country where all or nearly all residents live in urban neighborhoods .
The ATUS not only asks people how they spend their time but also how they feel while they 're engaged in particular activities . Our analysis of this data shows that mothers find their leisure time to be more meaningful than do fathers . Mothers rate 63 % of their leisure activities `` very meaningful , '' while fathers give a similar rating to about 52 % of their leisure activities . Meanwhile , mothers feel more exhausted than fathers during their leisure time , and their stress level associated with leisure time is higher as well .
The Pew Research Center 's report earlier this month on partisan identification found that 51 % of Millennials ( 18 - 33 years old in 2014 ) identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , while 35 % identify as Republicans or lean Republican . By contrast , 47 % of those in the Silent Generation ( ages 69 - 86 in 2014 ) say they are Republican or lean Republican ; 43 % affiliate with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic . The partisan leanings of Baby Boomers and Generation X fall in between ; both generations favor the Democratic Party , but to a lesser extent than Millennials . As the Pew Research Center has often noted , it is not always the case that younger generations are more Democratic . Two decades ago , the youngest adults – Generation X – were the most Republican age cohort on balance , while the oldest – the Greatest Generation– were the most Democratic . In 1994 , 47 % of Gen Xers ( then ages 18 - 29 ) identified with or leaned toward the Republican Party , while 42 % identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic . And members of the Greatest Generation ( then ages 67 - 81 ) — favored the Democratic Party over the GOP ( 49 % to 42 % ) .
The mismatch group is also significantly more likely to have changed residences in the past few years , making it more challenging for voter databases to maintain up-to-date records of their voting history . For example , those who have lived at least five years at their current residence are significantly more likely to have their self-reported vote match the voter record than those who have a shorter residential tenure ( 12 % vs. 26 % ) . Renters ( 27 % ) are twice as likely as homeowners ( 13 % ) to say they voted but to not have a record of voting .
A recent survey from the Pew Research Center found that a majority of Americans ( 55 % ) believe the Trans-Pacific Partnership is a good thing , while just 25 % think the agreement will be bad for the country and 19 % do n't have an opinion . While more Democrats ( 59 % ) and independents ( 56 % ) support the trade pact , roughly half of Republicans ( 49 % ) also see U.S. membership in the TPP as positive . Americans ages 18 - 29 are also more likely than their older counterparts to view the agreement favorably . Americans embrace the idea of expanding trade relations specifically with Japan . Fully 74 % in the U.S. say increased trade with Japan would be a good thing , and 29 % think it would be very good for the U.S . The belief that increased trade with Japan is a very good thing is shared across the political spectrum and has strong backing among the college-educated , 42 % of whom hold that view .
Among those who anticipate that Russia or other foreign governments will attempt to influence the election , about two-thirds ( 66 % ) say this is a major problem . These views are much more prevalent among Democrats ( 82 % ) than Republicans ( 39 % ) .
Elsewhere in the region , the 2007 survey found little confidence in Chavez to do the right thing in world affairs among the Latin American countries surveyed . In fact , fewer than one-in-five said they have confidence in Chavez 's ability as a global leader in Brazil ( 17 % ) , Mexico ( 17 % ) , Peru ( 15 % ) and Chile ( 14 % ) . Even in the country led by one of Chavez 's closest allies — Bolivia 's Evo Morales — only one-third expressed confidence in the Venezuelan leader . Opinions about Chavez were more mixed in Argentina , where nearly as many expressed confidence as lacked confidence ( 40 % vs. 43 % , respectively ) .
From 2008 to 2019 , overall newsroom employment in the U.S. dropped by 23 % , according to the new analysis . In 2008 , there were about 114,000 newsroom employees – reporters , editors , photographers and videographers – in five industries that produce news : newspaper , radio , broadcast television , cable and `` other information services '' ( the best match for digital-native news publishers ) . By 2019 , that number had declined to about 88,000 , a loss of about 27,000 jobs .
Across the European countries surveyed , a median of 47 % think Germany is playing a more important role in the world than it was 10 years ago . This view is most pronounced in Greece , where 81 % say Germany plays a more important role , and just 5 % say it has a less important role . Majorities in Spain and Italy also feel Germany plays a more important role today than it has in past .
Six-in-ten Americans say that if the government tracked people 's locations through their cellphone , it would n't make much of a difference in limiting the spread of COVID-19 , according a survey of U.S. adults conducted April 7 to 12 . Smaller shares of Americans say it would help a lot ( 16 % ) or help a little ( 22 % ) .
Americans think automation will likely disrupt a number of professions – but they are less likely to foresee an impact on their own jobs . In the Center 's 2017 survey , around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) said it was very or somewhat likely that fast food workers would be replaced by robots or computers in their lifetimes , while about two-thirds ( 65 % ) said the same about insurance claims processors . Around half said automation would replace the jobs of software engineers and legal clerks , while smaller shares said it would affect construction workers , teachers or nurses . Three-in-ten Americans said their own jobs would become automated in their lifetimes . ( A slightly different question was asked in the 2018 survey . )
In November 2014 , before Clinton had declared her candidacy , Democrats were more enthused than Republicans about a potential female president . This partisan difference was bigger than the gender difference among survey respondents . Our survey question asked people whether they hoped a female president will be elected in their lifetime , or whether that did not matter to them . For many , the prospect of a Clinton presidency may have influenced their responses to this `` hypothetical '' question . Democratic women ( 69 % ) were the most likely to say they hoped a female U.S. president would be elected in their lifetimes , followed by Democratic men ( 46 % ) and independent women ( 45 % ) . Among Republicans , fewer women ( 20 % ) and men ( 16 % ) said they hoped for this , as did about a third ( 32 % ) of independent men .
Tablet computer and smartphone ownership have each increased dramatically in recent years , and a growing share of Americans are using these multipurpose mobile devices – rather than dedicated e-readers – to read books . Between 2011 and 2016 , the number of Americans who read books on tablet computers has increased nearly fourfold ( from 4 % to 15 % ) , while the share who read books on smartphones has more than doubled ( from 5 % to 13 % ) . The share of Americans who read books on desktop or laptop computers has also increased , although by a more modest amount : 11 % of Americans now do this , up from 7 % in 2011 .
Among the public overall , positive ratings for the government 's handling of ensuring access to health care have declined 20 percentage points since 2015 ; today , just 36 % say it does a very or somewhat good job in ensuring access to health care , down from 56 % two years ago .
More than half of married U.S. adults ( 56 % ) – both with and without children – say sharing household chores is `` very important '' to a successful marriage , according to the most recent report from Pew Research Center 's Religious Landscape Study . That ranks behind having shared interests ( 64 % ) and a satisfying sexual relationship ( 61 % ) , but ahead of having children ( 43 % ) and having adequate income ( 42 % ) .
Perceptions of neighborhood composition along these lines vary somewhat by community type . The largest gap can be seen on perceptions of neighbors ' racial and ethnic backgrounds : Roughly seven-in-ten rural residents ( 69 % ) say all or most of their neighbors are the same race or ethnicity as them ; significantly fewer suburban ( 53 % ) and urban ( 43 % ) adults say the same .
Survey items were chosen for inclusion if they were asked of the total sample and not only the Web-mode panelists . Items were excluded if they had complex skip patterns based on previous waves ' responses . A few items were excluded if they , or an item very similar to them , were already asked in a previous wave . The items chosen for the analysis of differences among subgroups in the population are frequently used measures across the major research domains at Pew Research Center . For this analysis two weights were created for each wave of data collection . The first weights the total sample , including the Web and mail panelists , to demographic targets of all U.S. adults living in households . The second weights only the Web-mode portion of the panel to these same total population targets . Additional information about the weighting , including the sources of the targets , can be found in the methods section at the end of this report .
Like teens overall , Hispanic teens also practice religion with their families in other ways : roughly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they talk with their family `` often '' ( 21 % ) or `` sometimes '' ( 43 % ) about religion . And just one-in-ten say they never have these discussions . About four-in-ten report saying grace or a prayer before family meals at least sometimes , and 28 % say they read religious scriptures as a family with the same frequency .
The survey finds that voters view Biden much more positively than Trump for compassion , honesty and being a good role model . Nearly twice as many voters say `` compassionate '' describes Biden very or fairly well than say it applies to Trump ( 67 % vs. 34 % ) . More than half of voters ( 53 % ) say Biden is honest , compared with 35 % who describe Trump as honest . And far more voters say Biden is a good role model ( 54 % vs. 28 % ) . The gap is narrower on other personal attributes . Biden holds a narrow 6-point edge in `` courageous '' ( 54 % Biden , 48 % Trump ) ; slightly more say Trump than Biden is mentally sharp ( 50 % Trump , 46 % Biden ) . Among six personal traits included , Trump holds his widest edge in standing up for his beliefs : 69 % say this describes Trump very or fairly well , compared with 61 % who say it describes Biden well .
There are differences in the amount of online instruction parents say their children have received during the coronavirus-related closures . Some 43 % of parents say their children 's K-12 school has provided a lot of online instruction since it closed , while 35 % say the school has provided some . ( Online instruction can include online assignments , meetings with teachers or instructional videos . )
Around three-fourths of Americans ( 76 % ) are aware that U.S. energy production has increased over the past 20 years . And large majorities of Americans favor expanding at least two types of renewable sources to provide energy : solar panel ( 89 % ) and wind turbine ( 85 % ) facilities . Fewer than half of Americans support more hydraulic fracturing or `` fracking '' ( 39 % ) , offshore oil and gas drilling ( 39 % ) or coal mining ( 37 % ) ; 44 % support more nuclear power plants . These figures are in keeping with the findings of a 2016 Pew Research Center survey .
A majority of the public sees societal benefit from government investment in science and engineering research . Roughly seven-in-ten adults say that government investment in engineering and technology ( 72 % ) as well as basic science research ( 71 % ) pays off in the long run while a minority says such spending is not worth it ( 22 % and 24 % , respectively ) . Positive views about the value of government investment in each area is about the same as in 2009 , though negative views that such spending is not worth it have ticked up 5 points for engineering and technology research and 6 points for basic science research .
Yet , when directly asked about the link between Latino identity and speaking Spanish , seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Latino adults say speaking Spanish is not required to be considered Latino . Even among immigrant Latinos , a majority ( 58 % ) holds this view about Spanish and Latino identity . And among U.S.-born Latinos , higher shares say the same : 84 % of second-generation Latinos and 92 % of third or higher generation Latinos ( the group farthest from their family 's immigrant roots ) say speaking Spanish does not make someone Latino .
About three-in-ten Latino Democratic voters ( 31 % ) say they have given a lot of thought to who is running for president in 2020 , and a similar share of Republican voters say the same . Comparable shares of Democrats ( 43 % ) and Republicans ( 46 % ) say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year than in previous presidential elections .
Americans ' anxieties about privacy extend to the realm of digital romance . Some 30 % of U.S. adults say they have ever used a dating app or site , and among them , a majority ( 57 % ) report being either very or somewhat concerned about how much data such services collect about them . Older online daters tend to be more worried about this type of data collection than their younger counterparts . About half ( 48 % ) of online dating users ages 18 to 29 say they are very or somewhat concerned about data collection , while larger majorities of older users express concern . Online dating users 50 and older are especially likely to be `` very '' concerned about data collection . There are also modest differences by gender among online daters , with women more concerned than men .
Older people in the UK are more likely to support reclaiming some powers from the EU . Almost three-quarters of British over the age of 50 take this position , compared with only 51 % of those ages 18 - 35 . Britons with less education are more likely than those with more education to favor Brussels returning some powers to national capitals ( 68 % vs. 56 % ) . And men are more likely than women to prefer this option .
Gold medals may not be the only thing at stake for the next few weeks in Sochi , Russia . The Olympic Games , which air on NBC , could also affect the contest for morning news ratings , which ABC has dominated since the last Olympic Games in 2012 .
The survey finds that majorities of Democrats generally say the gender , race or sexuality of the Democratic nominee would n't make a difference in their enthusiasm for the candidate . About two-thirds or more say having a woman nominee ( 64 % ) , a black nominee ( 75 % ) or a gay , lesbian or bisexual nominee ( 68 % ) would n't make a difference . Still , far more Democrats say they would be more enthusiastic ( 31 % ) than less enthusiastic ( 4 % ) if the party 's nominee were a woman . Larger shares also say they would be more enthusiastic than less enthusiastic if the nominee were black ( 21 % vs. 4 % ) , Hispanic ( 21 % vs. 6 % ) or Asian ( 16 % vs. 9 % ) .
In the U.S. , political affiliation dictates who people think is the most important foreign policy partner . While both Republicans and Democrats agree that the UK is their most important partner , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are keener on Israel as a partner ( 26 % ) than Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 9 % ) . Democrats also place more emphasis on Canada and Mexico for their top foreign policy affiliate . However , views of Germany are similar among partisans in the U.S. , with both sides ranking Germany fifth on the list of most or second-most important foreign policy partners .
The public 's news interests are largely unchanged from a week earlier . But news organizations suddenly shifted their focus from Japan to the ongoing military action in Libya . News about Libya accounted for 41 % of news coverage this week , compared with just 15 % devoted to the Japan crisis , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Just a week earlier , news from Japan accounted for more than half ( 57 % ) of all news coverage .
Overall , 41 % of voters said whites in the country today are favored over minorities ; 19 % said that minorities are favored over whites , while 33 % said that no group is favored . Attitudes on this question were strongly correlated with vote choice . Among those who said whites are favored in the U.S. , 87 % voted for Democrats . By contrast , large majorities of those who said minorities are favored ( 85 % ) or that no group is favored ( 69 % ) voted for Republican candidates . Views of the seriousness of the problem of sexual harassment also were closely tied to midterm preferences : 72 % of those who said it is a very serious problem supported Democratic candidates . Among those who said it was a somewhat serious problem , Republican candidates held a slim edge ( 50 % vs. 48 % ) . And while relatively few voters said sexual harassment is not too serious a problem ( 11 % ) , this group voted overwhelmingly Republican ( 79 % vs. 20 % ) .
A majority of Americans believe the news media do not understand people like them , and this feeling is especially common among Republicans , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . Overall , 58 % of U.S. adults feel the news media do not understand people like them , while 40 % feel they are understood , as reported in a recent Pew Research Center study . Republicans , however , are nearly three times as likely to feel that news organizations do n't understand them ( 73 % ) as they are to say they feel understood ( 25 % ) . By comparison , most Democrats ( 58 % ) say they feel understood by the news media , while four-in-ten say they do not . Not only are Republicans far more likely to feel misunderstood by the news media , they feel this way regardless of their media habits and demographic characteristics , according to the analysis of data collected Feb. 22 to March 4 , 2018 , among 5,035 U.S. adults .
Compared with seniors , younger adults are more inclined to like trying new technology products . These age differences are in keeping with previous Pew Research Center surveys that found younger adults more likely to be interested in science and technology and more likely to own technology products such as smartphones , tablets and computers . And while men and women have similar preferences , index scores suggest that men under age 50 are more likely than either older men or women at any age to prefer new technology products . Technology products have typically come on the market with a high price tag that is out of reach for many consumers . Thus , not surprisingly , adults with family incomes of at least $ 150,000 annually also tend to express a stronger preference for early technology adoption on this summary index ( 39 % do so ) compared with those at middle- and lower-income levels .
While Clinton 's supporters – men and women alike – overwhelmingly say Trump has little or no respect for women ( 94 % say this ) , it is Clinton 's female supporters who are most likely to say Trump is completely lacking in respect for women . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of women who back Clinton say Trump has no respect at all for women , compared with a smaller majority ( 56 % ) among men who back her .
This chart shows the proportion of workers who are unauthorized migrants in a selection among the CPS ' 52 `` detailed industry groups '' . The major industries shown are those where the proportion of unauthorized migrants exceeds the proportion in the workforce ( 4.3 % ) . There are fewer detailed industries with high concentrations and significant numbers of unauthorized workers than detailed occupations . The range of credential and educational requirements is generally broader for industries than for occupations . Nonetheless , there are some industries with very high concentration of unauthorized workers . For example , 26 % of workers in the landscaping services industry are unauthorized ; similarly , about 1 in 5 workers in meat/poultry packing is unauthorized . The following industries have more than twice the representation of unauthorized workers than the whole labor force .
For Biden supporters , opposition to Trump is by far the most frequently mentioned reason why they support him . Asked an open-ended question about the main reason they support or lean toward Biden , a 56 % majority of his supporters cite their opposition to Trump ; far fewer mention Biden 's leadership or performance as a candidate ( 19 % ) or his personality ( 13 % ) .
Trump gets somewhat higher marks among people who express positive views of right-wing populist European political parties . For example , in France , among those with a favorable opinion of Marine Le Pen 's National Rally ( formerly National Front ) , 43 % have confidence in Trump , compared with only 13 % among people with an unfavorable view of National Rally .
In the Center 's 2019 poll , 84 % of Lebanese said their country 's economic situation is bad , with half saying the economic situation is very bad . And about half ( 49 % ) said that children today will be worse off financially than their parents . In addition to widespread doubt surrounding economic conditions in general , 72 % of Lebanese said they are pessimistic that the gap between the rich and poor will improve in the future . A similar share expressed concern about the future of the labor market : 68 % said they doubt that well-paying jobs will be available in the future .
More than half of U.S. adults ( 55 % ) say the reasons why Black people have been hospitalized at higher rates than other racial or ethnic groups have more to do with circumstances beyond people 's control . Still , a sizable share ( 44 % ) says it has more to do with people 's choices and lifestyles . Two-thirds of Black adults say these reasons have more to do with circumstances beyond people 's control . Narrower majorities of Asian ( 56 % ) , Hispanic ( 54 % ) and white ( 53 % ) adults say the same .
Among other news stories last week , 22 % say they followed George Zimmerman 's trial for the shooting death of Trayvon Martin very closely , while similar shares tracked Senate passage of an immigration reform bill ( 21 % very closely ) and efforts to apprehend Edward Snowden , the contractor who leaked government surveillance secrets ( 20 % very closely ) . More blacks than whites also paid very close attention to news about the Supreme Court 's decision on the Voting Rights Act ( 36 % of blacks , 15 % of whites ) and reports about TV food personality Paula Deen admitting that she used racially insensitive language ( 27 % of blacks , 16 % of whites ) .
In the new survey , majorities across all educational groups now say they favor same-sex marriage , but levels of support are highest among those who have graduated from college : 79 % among those with postgraduate degrees and 72 % among those with bachelor 's degrees . Smaller majorities of those with some college experience but no college degree ( 62 % ) or those with no more than a high school degree ( 53 % ) say they favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry . While Republicans overall are divided in views of same-sex marriage , moderate and liberal Republicans are much more supportive than are conservative Republicans ( 63 % vs. 39 % ) . There also are wide ideological differences among Democrats , though majorities of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 66 % ) and liberal Democrats ( 90 % ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally .
Across five evaluations in the survey , Trump gets his most negative ratings for setting a high moral standard for the presidency . The public 's pre-election expectations were already quite low : In November 2016 , just 33 % of Americans said that if Trump was elected he definitely or probably would set high moral standard for the presidency ; twice as many ( 66 % ) said he definitely or probably would not do this . The current ratings are somewhat more negative : Just 27 % say Trump has set a high moral standard for the presidency , while 71 % say he has not done this . Republicans are divided in their assessment of Trump in this area : 51 % say he definitely or probably set a high moral standard for the presidency , while 47 % say he definitely or probably has not . Just prior to the election , 60 % of Republicans said they expected Trump would set a high moral standard . Before the election , 89 % of Democrats anticipated that Trump would not set a high moral standard for the presidency ; today , about the same share ( 92 % ) say he has not done this . Still , more Democrats say he has definitely not set a high moral standard for the presidency than said he definitely would do this in the pre-election survey ( 81 % now , 69 % then ) . Similarly , before the election an overwhelming share of Democrats ( 91 % ) said Trump would definitely or probably not improve the country 's global standing ; today , 90 % say he has not achieved this objective . Republicans ' views also have changed little since before the election : Currently , 72 % say he has improved the U.S. global standing ; 70 % expected he would do this before his election victory . And while 84 % of Democrats say Trump has improperly used his office to enrich himself , his family or friends , 79 % expected he would do this before the election . Prior to the election , just 29 % of Republicans said Trump definitely or probably would use the office of the presidency for personal gain ; today , even fewer Republicans ( 21 % ) say has definitely or probably done this .
‘ Anger ' at government and views of GOP candidates . Donald Trump is viewed more favorably by the nearly one-third of Republicans and leaners who are angry at government ( 64 % favorable ) than by those who are frustrated or content with government ( 48 % ) . Other GOP presidential candidates ( Marco Rubio , Ted Cruz and Ben Carson ) also get higher favorable ratings among Republicans who are angry at government than among non-angry Republicans , in part because they are better known among the `` angry '' group .
A new Pew Research Center survey finds that 76 % in France say they have a favorable view of Muslims living in their country , similar to the 72 % registered in 2014 . Meanwhile , the percentage with a very favorable opinion of Muslims has increased significantly , rising from 14 % last year to 25 % today . Attitudes toward Muslims tend to be more positive on the political left in France , but ratings improved across the ideological spectrum .
For the public , the economic crisis and the president 's budget proposal were the dominant stories of the week . Amid reports about a projected $ 1.75 trillion federal budget deficit and a grim week on Wall Street , 56 % of Americans say they paid very close attention to news about the economy , and 34 % say it was the news they followed most closely .
The marital status of mothers has also changed dramatically . In 1960 , nearly all mothers with young children were married , compared with just seven-in-ten today . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) of all births today are to unmarried women ; up from just 5 % of births in 1960 .
A January 2014 survey found broad public agreement that economic inequality has grown over the past decade but wide partisan divisions on what to do about it . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of the public believed the gap between the rich and everyone else has increased in the last 10 years .
Despite their relatively secular worldview , Lebanese Muslims are among the most supportive of terrorist acts in the name of Islam . In 2005 , 39 % said suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians are often or sometimes justified in order to defend Islam from its enemies . Only Jordan , at 57 % , registered more support for suicide attacks .1 In Morocco , Turkey , and Indonesia , fewer than one-in-five Muslims believe such attacks can often or sometimes be justified .
In practical terms , this type of hyperinflation means that the price of goods can shoot up precipitously over the course of only a week . The turbulent economy has left many Venezuelans saying they can not afford key necessities . In the new Center survey , about three-quarters say there were times over the past year when they did not have enough money to buy food their family needed , 80 % said they sometimes could not pay for their family 's medical or health care , and 87 % said they could not always afford to buy clothing for their family . These differences cut across cleavages in society : Men and women , older and younger Venezuelans , and those with higher and lower levels of education are similarly likely to say they ca n't afford these basics .
The share of Americans who express consistently conservative or consistently liberal opinions has doubled over the past two decades , from 10 % to 21 % . As a result , the amount of ideological overlap between the two parties has diminished . The `` median , '' or typical , Republican is now more conservative than 94 % of Democrats , compared with 70 % twenty years ago . And the median Democrat is more liberal than 92 % of Republicans , up from 64 % . Among Republicans and Democrats who are highly engaged in politics , 70 % now take positions that are mostly or consistently in line with the ideological bent of their party .
This study also examines several other factors that might affect people 's level of engagement and comfort with the contact tracing process . First , it looks at Americans ' openness to answering phone calls from unknown numbers and finds some evidence that even starting the contact tracing process might not be easy in many cases . Just 19 % of Americans say they generally answer their cellphones when an unknown phone number calls . Some 67 % say they do n't answer but would check a voicemail if one is left . And 14 % say they generally do n't answer and would ignore a voicemail . At the same time , shares of Americans say people pretend to be someone else in order to steal other people 's personal information with some frequency . Some nine-in-ten Americans think it is often ( 49 % ) or sometimes ( 42 % ) the case that people do this .
Estimated spending by new foreign students at U.S. higher education institutions increased by about 184 % from 2008 to 2016 . In 2016 , foreign students spent an estimated $ 15.5 billion on higher education – a total that includes tuition , room , board and other expenses – compared with $ 5.5 billion in 2008 . Estimated total spending by foreign students at public universities grew by nearly 214 % from 2008 ( $ 2.5 billion ) to 2016 ( $ 7.8 billion ) . Students from China , India and South Korea accounted for more than half ( 54 % ) of all new foreign students pursuing higher education degrees in the U.S. in 2016 . About 108,000 new students were from China , accounting for 30 % of the total . About 66,000 came from India ( 18 % of the total ) , followed by South Korea with about 21,000 foreign students ( 6 % of the total ) .
Publics are generally more worried than hopeful about the prospect that robots and computers may one day be able to do much of the work done by humans today . Their greatest concern is that automation will make it harder for ordinary people to find jobs . More than eight-in-ten adults in Greece , Argentina , Brazil , South Africa and Canada voice such worries , and more than seven-in-ten in Hungary , Poland , Italy and Japan agree . Many in the nations surveyed also believe that the greater use of robots and computers will worsen inequality between the rich and the poor . More than eight-in-ten in Greece , Argentina , Japan and Brazil express this view , as do more than seven-in-ten in Canada , South Africa , the U.S. and Hungary . Worsening inequality due to technological advances is a particular concern among the more highly educated in countries such as Japan , South Africa and Brazil . And less than half the publics surveyed believe that robots and computers doing much of the work currently done by humans would lead to new , better-paying jobs . In fact , only about a quarter of Americans and Italians and roughly a third of Japanese and Hungarians hold this view . Women are less hopeful than men in Canada , Japan and Brazil . And in Canada , Greece and Japan , those without a college education are less likely than the college-educated to say that automation will lead to new , better-paying jobs .
Even though many in these eight nations are dissatisfied with their economic situations , the mood in the Middle East and Europe is worse . Across the African nations surveyed , a median of 41 % believe the economy is in good shape , compared with 27 % in the Middle East and just 15 % in Europe .
As has historically been the case in Pew Research Center polling , older people tend to have more negative opinions of China than younger people . About half of 18- to 29-year-olds ( 49 % ) express an unfavorable view of China , compared with 58 % of those ages 30 to 49 and two-thirds of people 50 and older ( 67 % ) . People with at least a four-year college degree are also more negative toward China ( 69 % ) than those who have not completed college ( 57 % ) .
As the following charts show , the differences between dial-up and broadband users persist in our October 2002 data , but they are much smaller for dial-up users with 6 or more years of online experience who say they want broadband . This is especially true for information gathering activities . Two in five ( 41 % ) of broadband users get news on the Internet on a typical day compared with 35 % of experienced dial-up users who want broadband .
Suspected bots are no more likely to link to digital-native news sites than to legacy news organizations . One might expect sites that were `` born on the web '' to be more integrated with social media and online environments relative to legacy news sites , and thus more frequently trafficked by suspected bot accounts . Yet suspected automated accounts are prolific in sharing links not only to sites born on the web but also to legacy news organizations . Suspected bots shared 60 % of tweeted links to legacy sites , about on par with the 59 % of tweeted links to digital native sites .
Similarly , assessments of Trump ' s personal traits and characteristics , including his trustworthiness , leadership and ability to get things done , have not changed much over the course of his presidency . Trump continues to get low ratings for his temperament : Just 28 % of Americans say he is even-tempered , while 69 % say that description does not apply . A somewhat larger share ( 36 % ) says Trump is trustworthy ; a majority ( 61 % ) says Trump is not trustworthy .
People in most surveyed countries were more likely to approve of their own nation 's handling of the pandemic than the WHO 's response . But that was n't the case everywhere . In Sweden , Belgium , France and the U.S. , similar shares said their country and the WHO had done a good job . Elsewhere , more said the WHO had handled the outbreak well than said the same of their own country . ( The survey was conducted in summer , before a second surge in coronavirus cases began across Europe . ) In the UK , fewer than half ( 46 % ) said their own country had done a good job dealing with the virus , but 64 % said the same about the WHO . Similarly , in Spain , 54 % said their country had dealt with the virus well , but two-thirds said the same of the WHO .
Western homeowners are particularly likely to say they have already installed or are considering solar panels at home . Some 14 % of homeowners in the West say they have installed solar panels at home . Another 52 % of Western homeowners say they have considered installing home solar panels in the past year .
The foreign-born shares of populations in several European countries have dramatically increased since mid-2015 , as more than 1 million migrants applied for asylum in Europe between July 2015 and May 2016 . This growth in the share of foreign born is due to migration of both asylum seekers and economic migrants entering European countries , but is largely driven by the rapid rise of asylum seekers .
Many Europeans are uncomfortable with the growing diversity of society . When asked whether having an increasing number of people of many different races , ethnic groups and nationalities makes their country a better or worse place to live , relatively few said it makes their country better . And in Greece , Italy , Hungary and Poland , at least four-in-ten said increasing diversity harms their country .
Younger adults in Taiwan tend to favor economic relations with the U.S. over relations with the mainland more than their older counterparts , and they are more supportive when it comes to closer relations with the U.S. For example , roughly eight-in-ten or more of each age group favor closer U.S.-Taiwan ties in economic matters . Only about four-in-ten adults ages 18 to 29 say they would support closer economic ties with mainland China , while 55 % of those 50 and older say the same . Among younger people , there is a 50 percentage point difference in support for economic relations with the two countries . A similar pattern exists when it comes to political relations with the U.S. and mainland China .
When looking at the data by country , a larger share of Honduran unaccompanied minors are younger than 12 , compared with those from other countries . More than one-in-four ( 27 % ) apprehended Honduran children were ages 12 and under in fiscal year 2014 , up from 20 % the previous year . El Salvador ranks second in the share of minors apprehended at the border who are 12 years and younger , with the share increasing from 17 % to 22 % over the same time period . Among those from Guatemala , the share of minors apprehended at the border who are ages 12 and under has doubled to 10 % . By contrast , just 3 % of apprehensions of Mexican minors were young children during both fiscal years . Mexico 's apprehensions in fiscal year 2014 so far have not yet exceeded the previous year .
By contrast , the religious `` nones '' – those who are religiously unaffiliated – overwhelmingly support legal abortion . Roughly three-quarters ( 74 % ) say it should be legal in all or most cases , while just 21 % say it should be illegal . A large majority of white mainline Protestants ( 67 % ) also say abortion should be legal .
As for median household income , the most recent data we have is for 2011 ( the Census Bureau will release 2012 numbers next week ) , but they show that after factoring in inflation , the median U.S. household income shrank 4.7 percent between 2008 and 2011 . Little surprise , then , that more than half ( 54 % ) of the people in our survey said household incomes have hardly recovered since the recession , and a scant 2 % said they 've fully recovered .
44 . Drone Warfare : Washington 's use of drones to target extremists in countries such as Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia is likely to continue to fuel anti-American sentiment because it is widely opposed around the world . Among the 39 nations surveyed by the Pew Research Center in 2013 , half or more of the public in 31 countries disapproved of such military action . But U.S. drone strikes could well continue in 2014 . Half of Americans say such actions have made the United States safer from terrorism .
And of course , widespread opposition to the war in Iraq has intensified anti-American sentiments among Muslim publics . Our 2006 poll showed that majorities in Jordan , Turkey , Egypt , Indonesia , and Pakistan believe the war has made the world a more dangerous place .
Despite their mixed feelings toward American power , Germans clearly prefer the U.S. as the world 's leading power over China . Nearly six-in-ten Germans say having the U.S. as the top global power would be better for the world , with only 19 % saying this about China . However , 17 % in Germany volunteer `` neither '' when asked the question .
Adherents of folk religions are the largest religious group in just three countries ( Macau , Taiwan and Vietnam ) , but they are the second-largest group in 23 nations , including China ( where `` nones '' are the biggest group ) . Hindus , meanwhile , make up the second-largest group in 12 countries , perhaps most notably Pakistan . Buddhists are the second-largest group in seven countries ( including Japan ) . Jews are not the second-largest religious group in any nation .
Four of the eight sources named by at least 2 % of U.S. adults are much more likely to be named by Democrats and independents who lean Democratic than by Republicans and GOP leaners : MSNBC , The New York Times , NPR and CNN . Fox News is the one outlet among these eight that is far more likely to be named by Republicans than by Democrats . Those who name Fox News and MSNBC display roughly the same high levels of partisanship . About nine-in-ten of those whose main source is Fox News ( 93 % ) identify as Republican , very close to the 95 % of those who name MSNBC and identify as Democrats . Similarly , about nine-in-ten of those who name The New York Times ( 91 % ) and NPR ( 87 % ) as their main political news source identify as Democrats , with CNN at about eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) .
But after a primary campaign that saw the most diverse group of candidates in the party 's history – including six women , several black , Hispanic and Asian candidates and the first openly gay contender – 41 % of Democratic registered voters say they are bothered that the likely Democratic nominee for the 2020 election is a white man in his 70s . About six-in-ten Democratic voters ( 59 % ) say this does not bother them , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
Though most give positive marks to hospitals and medical centers for their handling of the outbreak , 52 % of U.S. adults think the hospitals in their area will struggle to handle the number of people seeking treatment for the coronavirus over the next few months ; 47 % think they will be able to handle the number of patients . Republicans are less concerned than Democrats that hospitals will struggle to handle coronavirus caseloads , a finding in keeping with wide political differences over the degree to which the coronavirus poses a major threat to public health . Seven-in-ten of those who are very concerned about getting a case of COVID-19 that would require hospitalization believe hospitals in their area will struggle to handle patient needs over the next few months .
As violence and chaos spreads in Iraq , the public is wary of U.S. involvement in the country . A 55 % majority says the United States does not have a responsibility to do something about the violence in Iraq ; 39 % do see a responsibility to act . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted July 8 - 14 among 1,805 adults , finds that a majority of the public ( 55 % ) thinks that religious and ethnic rivalries in Iraq have contributed a lot to the current violence and instability in the country . About four-in-ten ( 39 % ) think the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops has been a major contributing factor , while somewhat fewer ( 32 % ) say the U.S.-led war in Iraq has contributed a lot to the country 's violence and instability .
Defenders of the U.S. health care system have long claimed that the American approach delivers greater access to care when a person is sick . However , the survey suggests access is a relative concept . Fully 57 % of elderly Americans said they can get a same-day or next-day appointment to see a medical professional when they are ill. That is certainly more than those who can claim such timely access in Canada ( 45 % ) , which is the oft-cited comparison made by critics of delays in government funded health care in the U.S .
A majority ( 75 % ) says they feel comfortable going to the grocery store given the current situation with the coronavirus outbreak , and about two-thirds ( 65 % ) say they are comfortable visiting with a close friend or family member inside their home . Just over half ( 53 % ) are comfortable going to a hair salon or barbershop .
Foreign policy , the budget deficit and immigration are among the most dominant issues for Republican voters ; each is named by 70 % or more as `` very important '' to their vote in the fall . But only about half of Democratic voters say each of these issues are very important to their vote decisions .
The top public college for OPT participants is City University of New York 's Bernard M. Baruch College ( 18,500 ) . Other public schools that graduated significant numbers of OPT enrollees include University of Michigan at Ann Arbor ( 13,700 ) , University of California , Los Angeles ( 13,600 ) , and University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign ( 13,600 ) . The New York-Newark-Jersey City metro area had the largest cumulative population of OPT participants ( 218,400 ) .16 That was followed by the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Anaheim ( 103,600 ) and Boston-Cambridge-Newton metro areas ( 73,000 ) . New York 's dominance can be explained in part by its ability to retain foreign students graduating from local colleges : 85 % of foreign students graduating from New York-area schools stayed in the metro region to work under OPT between 2004 and 2016 . In the Los Angeles and Boston areas , the shares were 78 % and 72 % , respectively . The Seattle ( 84 % ) and Honolulu areas ( 83 % ) actually outperformed Los Angeles and Boston in terms of the share of local foreign students retained through OPT .
Nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of Hispanic smartphone owners have used their phone in the past year to research a health condition , which is similar to the share for blacks . But whites are less likely to say they 've used a phone to seek out health information .
In most countries polled , people express the greatest faith in their own national governments . A median of 78 % across the eight countries where the question was asked say they are at least somewhat confident that their national government will help solve major problems in the country .
Asked whether or not the growing world population will be a major problem , 59 % of Americans agreed it will strain the planet 's natural resources , while 82 % of U.S.-based members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science said the same . Just 17 % of AAAS scientists and 38 % of Americans said population growth wo n't be a problem because we will find a way to stretch natural resources .
In the first months of the Trump administration , the top countries of origin for refugees have been the Democratic Republic of the Congo ( 3,235 ) , followed by Burma ( Myanmar ) ( 2,470 ) , Iraq ( 1,923 ) , Somalia ( 1,879 ) , Syria ( 1,779 ) and Ukraine ( 1,603 ) . These six countries have made up two-thirds ( 67 % ) of all refugees entering the U.S. since Jan. 21 , 2017 . Of these , three are majority-Muslim origin countries ( Iraq , Somalia and Syria ) .
These online announcements , however , are still very much in the minority . Since the 2004 election cycle , 27 of the 41 candidates who appeared in the Republican or Democratic presidential primary debates ( or have announced for 2016 ) included a public address in their formal announcement , according to our calculations . ( Sometimes , candidates have also made the announcement on some other platform , as in 2003 when former Sen. John Edwards , a North Carolina Democrat , announced on The Daily Show before giving a formal speech . ) In that election cycle , twice as many Republican candidates ( eight ) made their announcements through a TV or radio appearance than did through formal speeches ( four ) . And this was not simply `` dark horse '' candidates looking for a gimmick : former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani announced on Larry King Live , and former Arkansas Gov . Mike Huckabee announced on NBC 's Meet the Press . Two GOP contenders launched their campaigns on late-night comedy shows that cycle : Sen. John McCain of Arizona confirmed his run on Late Show with David Letterman , and Thompson followed up an online video with an announcement on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno .
Americans continue to follow news about the economic crisis closely because they feel it is directly relevant to their lives. More than eight-in-ten (85%) say even when the economic news is bad they feel better knowing whatâ€™s going on, while 77% say they need to stay on top of economic news because it matters in the financial decisions they make.
About four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say they think of Russia as a serious problem , but not an adversary ; fewer ( 28 % ) consider Russia an adversary and 24 % say the country is not much of a problem . Overall public views are about the same as there were in January 2017 , shortly before Donald Trump took office . As was the case then , about twice as many Republicans ( 33 % ) as Democrats ( 17 % ) say Russia is `` not much of a problem . '' However , somewhat fewer Democrats view Russia as an adversary than did so in January 2017 ( 30 % now , 38 % then ) , though the share describing it as either a serious problem or an adversary is little changed . Republicans ' views of Russia have changed little over this period .
About half of the public ( 46 % ) says the U.S. Supreme Court should make its rulings based on its understanding of what the Constitution `` meant as it was originally written , '' while an identical share says the court should base its rulings on what the Constitution `` means in current times , '' according to a survey conducted in October . Public opinion about this issue has changed little in recent years .
About three-quarters of Latinos ( 78 % ) say it will be necessary for Congress to pass another economic relief bill in addition to the $ 2 trillion economic assistance package passed by Congress in March and signed by President Donald Trump .
However , fewer than half ( 45 % ) of all Americans surveyed last year said they believe the U.S. has made substantial progress toward racial equality since 1963 , when King delivered his `` I Have a Dream '' speech in Washington . Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) said `` a lot more '' needs to be done to achieve racial equality . Broken down by race , a higher share of blacks ( 79 % ) than Hispanics ( 48 % ) and whites ( 44 % ) felt that way , according to a Pew Research Center report .
Overall , children are overrepresented among America 's impoverished population . Some 22 % of the U.S. population are children , but those younger than 18 represent 31 % of all Americans living in poverty .
Americans generally like unions and broadly support the right of workers to unionize . A majority ( 55 % ) holds a favorable view of unions , versus 33 % who hold an unfavorable view , according to the 2018 Center survey mentioned above . In a 2015 survey , large majorities said manufacturing and factory workers ( 82 % ) , public transportation workers ( 74 % ) , police and firefighters ( 72 % ) and public school teachers ( 71 % ) should have the right to unionize . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) said fast-food workers should be able to unionize , while 35 % were opposed .
One-in-four ( 25 % ) are very worried about a domestic terrorist attack happening `` soon , '' while about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) are somewhat worried ; 36 % are not too worried or not at all worried . That balance of opinion has not significantly changed since last July . The long-term trend on terrorism concerns has been fairly stable , except on a few occasions , since the fall of 2001 .
Protection tops the list of reasons for owning a gun . While many gun owners say they have more than one reason for owning a firearm , 67 % cite protection as a major reason . About four-in-ten gun owners ( 38 % ) say hunting is a major reason , and 30 % cite sport shooting . Smaller shares cite a gun collection or their job as major reasons .
Lebanon – the country where views of diversity were most negative – has been heavily affected in recent years by Syrian refugees . It is the country that hosts the highest number of Syrian refugees per capita , according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) , having taken in around 1 million refugees in a country with fewer than 7 million people . Even before the coronavirus pandemic and the resulting lockdown restrictions placed on Syrian refugees in Lebanon , public sentiment about refugees in Lebanon was largely negative : a 70 % majority had an unfavorable view of refugees , including 41 % who had very unfavorable opinions . Though age , education and income levels all played a role in views of refugees , majorities across each of these demographic groups held negative opinions . And when it came to religion , Sunni Muslims ( 60 % ) were less likely to have unfavorable opinions of refugees than Shiite Muslims ( 71 % ) or Christians ( 83 % ) .
However , inequality is a major concern in other regions as well . A median of 68 % rate it a very big problem in Latin America , while 60 % say the same in the Middle East .
Even so , college graduates are the least likely group to be renters . In 2016 , 29 % of college-educated household heads were renters , compared with 38 % of household heads with a high school degree only or some college experience and 52 % of household heads who did not finish high school .
In addition , black Muslims are much more likely than nonblack Muslims to have been born in the United States ( 69 % vs. 36 % ) , though less likely than black Christians ( 90 % ) . Aside from those born in the U.S. , many black Muslims come from sub-Saharan Africa , including countries such as Somalia and Ethiopia . By contrast , the most common places of origin for nonblack Muslims are south Asian countries , such as Pakistan .
There remain wide differences in these views by party and ideology . Seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say growing diversity in the U.S. makes it a better place to live , including 78 % of Democrats who describe themselves as liberal . A smaller majority of conservative and moderate Democrats ( 66 % ) say the same . By comparison , about half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 47 % ) see a positive impact of growing diversity in the U.S. ; 37 % say it does n't make much difference , and another 14 % say it makes the country a worse place to live . While positive views among Republicans vary little by ideology , negative views are somewhat more widespread among conservative Republicans than moderate and liberal Republicans . About one-in-six conservative Republicans ( 17 % ) say growing racial and ethnic diversity makes the country worse , while just 7 % of moderate and liberal Republicans agree .
Between 1980 and 2000 , immigration was the principal driver of Latino population growth as the Latino immigrant population boomed from 4.2 million to 14.1 million . Since then , however , the primary source of this growth has been U.S. births . Between 2000 and 2010 , there were 9.6 million Latino births in the U.S. , while the number of newly arrived immigrants was 6.5 million . The present decade is on track to repeat this pattern , with 5 million Latino births in the U.S. between 2010 and 2015 , compared with just 1.9 million newly arrived Latino immigrants .
Pluralities of Republican and Republican-leaning voters rate Giuliani as the strongest leader , most inspiring , and the candidate best able to make the changes the country needs . McCain leads on only one trait – having the best experience to be president – and his advantage is slight ( 32 % vs. 28 % who cite Giuliani ) . Newt Gingrich gets his highest ratings for experience – 17 % of Republicans cite him as the candidate with the best experience to be president .
By contrast , smaller shares of Americans who live in urban areas ( 13 % ) or the suburbs ( 9 % ) view access to high-speed internet service as a major problem in their area . And a majority of both urban and suburban residents report that this is not an issue in their local community , according to the survey , conducted Feb. 26-March 11 . ( The survey categorized Americans as urban , suburban or rural based on their own description of their community type . )
About a quarter of social media users – 26 % – say they follow science pages or accounts . These users are more likely to consider social media an important source of their science news and are evenly divided over whether they mostly trust or distrust the science posts they see ( 49 % to 49 % ) .
Majorities of adults under 50 say the internet has been essential to them during the coronavirus outbreak , compared with about a third of those 65 and older . An early April survey found that as people turned to the internet to replace in-person social and business encounters , about six-in-ten adults under 30 ( 62 % ) said the internet has been essential to them during the outbreak , while 65 % of adults ages 30 to 49 felt this way . This compares with about half ( 49 % ) of those ages 50 to 64 and 31 % of those 65 and older . The same survey found that younger adults were more likely than others to have held virtual parties and gatherings with their family and friends , watched concerts or other live-streamed events and participated in online fitness activities . For example , 48 % of adults ages 18 to 29 had a virtual party or gathering online , compared with about two-in-ten of those 50 and older .
The results indicate that the first step in the contract tracing process may be challenged by reluctance to answer unknown calls . Only 19 % of Americans report they generally would answer the phone to see who it is ; another 14 % would not answer and ignore a voicemail if one is left . The majority of U.S. adults ( 67 % ) would not answer the phone but would check a voicemail if left .
In Western Europe , slim majorities in Germany ( 54 % ) , Britain ( 53 % ) and France ( 51 % ) support raising prices to address climate change . Opinions are almost equally split among the Spanish ( 49 % agree vs. 48 % disagree ) .
The public is highly critical of the way the government is dealing with asylum seekers . While there are clear partisan differences in these views , a sizable minority of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 44 % ) say the government is doing a bad job in dealing with the increased number of asylum seekers at the border ; 55 % say the government is doing a good job .
Overall , half of Americans say that society does not place enough importance on working and having a job ; 19 % say that society places too much importance on work , while the remaining 31 % think that balance is just about right . However , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are about twice as likely as Democrats and Democratic leaners to say that society does n't place enough importance on working ( 69 % vs. 35 % ) . There is also a substantial age gap in how Americans view work . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of U.S. adults ages 65 and older – and 55 % of those ages 50 to 64 – think that society does not place enough importance on working . That share falls to just 36 % among those 18 to 29 .
At the same time , people in many countries worry about people leaving their home for jobs in other countries . Among surveyed nations , Greece and Spain – two countries that have seen significant numbers of people move abroad in recent years – have the highest shares of people who say this is a very or moderately big problem ( 89 % and 88 % , respectively ) .
Many more say the news organizations gave too much coverage to the unrest and violence than too little coverage ( 44 % vs. 12 % ) , but 38 % say it was the right amount . Roughly equal shares think the press gave too much ( 25 % ) as too little ( 28 % ) coverage to the circumstances surrounding Gray 's death ; a 39 % plurality thinks it was the right amount . When it comes to the non-violent protests , more believe that news organizations have given too little ( 37 % ) than too much ( 22 % ) coverage .
Despite these somewhat lukewarm assessments of their current political system , Japanese remain solidly supportive of democracy . Roughly three-quarters ( 77 % ) endorse representative democracy , while almost two-thirds ( 65 % ) say referenda on major policy issues would be good for Japan – something that has never happened in post-World War II Japan .
Supreme Court justices tend to come from similar backgrounds . Seven of the eight current Supreme Court justices , for example , previously served as federal appeals court judges . ( Only Elena Kagan did not . ) When looking at 112 current or former justices , the vast majority had prior experience in private legal practice , according to a Pew Research Center analysis in March 2017 . More than half had previously served as judges on either federal or state courts or held elected office .
People in countries with significant Muslim populations express overwhelmingly negative views of ISIS , according to our spring survey in 11 countries . Recent attacks in Paris , Beirut and Baghdad linked to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria ( ISIS ) have once again brought terrorism and Islamic extremism to the forefront of international relations . Majorities in most of the 11 countries express unfavorable views of ISIS , but the exception is Pakistan , where a majority offer no opinion .
Those ages 18 to 29 stand out from their elders on virtually every aspect of how mobile activities fit into their social lives , how they act with their phones and their views about the appropriateness of using phones in public and social settings . Younger adults are more engaged with their devices and permissive in their attitudes about when it is OK to use a mobile phone . Of course , older adults , especially senior citizens , are generally less likely than younger adults to own a mobile phone in the first place and are also less likely to use their phone for activities other than voice calls . This might be a factor in some of these differences .
The types of summer jobs that teenagers are holding has changed over time , too . More than 2.1 million of the estimated 6.2 million teens who were employed last July ( 34.2 % ) worked in the `` accommodation and food services '' industry – restaurants , hotels and the like – compared with 1.9 million ( 22.6 % ) in July 2000 , according to BLS data . In fact , this industry was the only major employer of teens that had more teen workers last July than in July 2000 – a span in which the number of all employed 16- to 19-year-olds fell by more than 2.2 million , or 26.5 % . ( That partly reflects overall employment in the accommodation and food services industry , which rose 38 % between July 2000 and July 2018 . ) But retail , once the leading summer employer of teens , has seen a steep falloff . Last July , 1.2 million teens worked in the retail sector , compared with more than 2 million in July 2000 – a 41 % drop . ( Among all workers , by comparison , non-seasonally adjusted retail employment was about 4 % higher last July than it was in July 2000 . ) Retail accounted for 19.3 % of teen summer jobs in July 2018 , down from 24 % in July 2000 .
The overall partisan gap between Republicans and Democrats in views of Kavanaugh 's nomination is as large as it has been for any nominee in recent years . Republicans and Republican leaners ( 73 % ) are 57-percentage points more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 16 % ) to say they think the Senate should confirm Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court . This is about the same as the partisan gap in views of Neil Gorsuch in February 2017 ( 55 points ) , but larger than for previous appointments made by George W. Bush and Obama . For example , in June 2009 there was a 36-point gap between the shares of Republicans ( 30 % ) and Democrats ( 66 % ) who supported the confirmation of Obama 's nominee Sonya Sotomayor to the Supreme Court . And in September 2005 , the partisan gap in views of Bush 's nominee John Roberts was about half of what it is today for Kavanaugh ( 30 points vs. 57 points ) .
But public perceptions of a more prosperous past often do not mirror real economic change . In Brazil , where a plurality of 43 % say personal financial conditions are worse today than 20 years ago , adjusted per capita gross domestic product ( GDP ) calculated on a purchasing power parity ( PPP ) basis is actually up 26 % since 1998 . In Mexico , while 40 % say times are worse for average people , per capita GDP is 16 % higher . The same is the case in Spain and France , where a majority of the public believes personal finances have deteriorated , but per capita real GDP has improved 25 % and 11 % respectively .
Not only that , but 57 % said the choice of a new Supreme Court justice was `` very important '' to them personally , and 24 % said it was `` somewhat important . '' In April 2010 , after Justice John Paul Stevens announced his retirement from the court , and before Obama named Elena Kagan as his replacement , just 40 % viewed the choice of a new Supreme Court justice as very important .
Conservative Republicans and Republican leaners ( who make up about two-thirds of all Republicans and GOP leaners ) overwhelmingly favor expanding the U.S.-Mexico border wall ( 91 % favor ) . Moderate and liberal Republicans are somewhat less supportive ( 69 % favor ) . And support for expanding the wall is much greater among older adults . About half of those ages 50 and older ( 48 % ) favor substantially expanding the border wall ; just 25 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 36 % of those 30 to 49 say the same .
As in the past , Democrats and Republicans have somewhat similar views of the Republican Party 's ideology : 64 % of Democrats and 51 % of Republicans say the GOP is either very conservative or conservative . But Republicans are about twice as likely as Democrats to view the Democratic Party as very liberal or liberal ( 75 % vs. 36 % ) .
Millennials – whether living with their parents or not – are moving significantly less often than earlier generations of young adults . Among 25- to 35-year-old Millennials who were living at home in 2016 , 91 % reported that they resided at the same address one year earlier . This does not preclude the possibility that the young adult moved out and `` boomeranged '' back in the intervening year ( perhaps multiple times ) ; the data simply indicate that they lived with their parent or parents one year earlier as well .
The downturn did increase unemployment across the board . Among mothers , the share of the working-age population , ages 16 and older , that was not employed increased from 2.2 % in September 2019 to 4.7 % in September 2020 . Fathers saw a similar rise in the share not employed , from 1.7 % to 4.5 % . Among mothers , those with children ages 3 and older experienced a slightly greater decrease in the share employed and at work ; among fathers , the decrease in this share was greater among those with children younger than 3 . Reflecting the gender gap in childcare , mothers with children younger than 3 are less likely to be at work . In September 2020 , 53.9 % of these mothers were employed and at work , compared with 70.4 % of mothers whose youngest child was 14 to 17 years old . These shares have dropped since September 2019 for all groups of mothers , with the decrease among mothers with children ages 3 to 5 or ages 6 to 13 ( 6.7 percentage points each ) being greater than among other mothers . Among fathers with children younger than 3 , the share who were working fell from 91.9 % in September 2019 to 85.0 % in September 2020 . The decrease in workplace activity was more modest among fathers with older children . For example , among fathers with children ages 14 to 17 , the overall share who were at work fell from 87.5 % % in September 2019 to 85.1 % in September 2020 .
Younger women are especially likely to report having troublesome interactions on online dating platforms . About three-in-ten or more online dating users say someone continued to contact them on a dating site or app after they said they were not interested ( 37 % ) , sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for ( 35 % ) or called them an offensive name ( 28 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say another user has threated to physically harm them . These rates are even higher among younger women . Six-in-ten female users ages 18 to 34 say someone on a dating site or app continued to contact them after they said they were not interested , while 57 % report that another user has sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for . At the same time , 44 % report that someone called them an offense name on a dating site or app , while 19 % say they have had someone threaten to physically harm them .
The survey finds that as debate over legal immigration also heats up , the public is split on the best approach for the country . Slightly more say legal immigration into the United States should be decreased ( 31 % ) than increased ( 24 % ) , while a 39 % plurality says legal immigration should be kept at its present level .
Americans are less accepting of other practices . For example , open relationships – that is , committed relationships where both people agree that it is acceptable to date or have sex with other people – are viewed as never or rarely acceptable by most Americans . About half of adults ( 48 % ) say having an open relationship is never acceptable , 20 % say it 's rarely acceptable and 32 % say it 's sometimes or always acceptable .
What have people around the world not liked about Trump ? Our 37-nation survey in 2017 found that many did not like his personal characteristics or leadership style . Majorities said he was arrogant , intolerant and dangerous . Few considered him well-qualified or believed that he cares about ordinary people .
While public attitudes toward individual leaders are mixed , Europeans express the most confidence in Germany 's Angela Merkel . Across 14 EU countries , a median of 57 % express confidence in Merkel 's ability to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Views of French President Emmanuel Macron are more mixed , while Russian President Vladimir Putin and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban get generally negative reviews from people on the continent .
When it comes to where Americans place their trust as they gather information before making an important decision , a big majority ( 81 % ) say they rely a lot on their own research – many more than say they rely a lot on friends and family ( 43 % ) or professional experts ( 31 % ) , according to a 2018 Pew Research Center survey . Some 15 % also say they rely on their own research `` a little '' as they make major decisions .
By contrast , the president is viewed much more negatively in Pakistan , the next stop on Bush 's South Asian trip . Just 10 % of Pakistanis express a great deal or some confidence in Bush to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Morocco ( 9 % ) , Turkey ( 8 % ) , and Jordan ( 1 % ) were the only countries surveyed to voice less confidence in Bush than do the people of Pakistan .
In the new study , nearly a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) have either consistently liberal ( 13 % ) or consistently conservative views ( 10 % ) . In 2004 , just 11 % were either consistently liberal ( 8 % ) or consistently conservative ( 3 % ) .
Similarly , the widespread view that technology has made people more informed about current events is often paired with worries that these tools might make people vulnerable : Majorities in 10 of these countries feel technology has made it easier to manipulate people with rumors and false information . Further , a recent report by the Center found that a median of 64 % across these 11 countries say people should be very concerned about exposure to false or incorrect information when using their phones .
The biggest difference measured is in Italy , where three-quarters say the U.S. would use such military force in such a scenario , compared with only a quarter who say Italy should defend that NATO ally , a 50 percentage point difference . Similar differences are seen in Greece ( 40 points ) , Spain ( 31 ) , Germany ( 29 ) , Slovakia ( 25 ) , the UK ( 18 ) , France ( 16 ) , Turkey ( 14 ) and Canada ( 13 ) . Particularly in Western Europe , the share of the public that says a relationship with the U.S. is more important is substantial . For example , in the UK and the Netherlands , about eight-in-ten support ties with the U.S. over Russia or both . And in Sweden , a non-NATO state , 71 % support closer ties with the U.S. than with Russia ( 11 % ) or both countries ( 9 % ) .
As was the case during the campaign , perceptions of Trump 's ideological views are divided , though only modestly along partisan lines . Overall , 46 % characterize Trump 's views as all or mostly conservative , while 41 % think of his views as a mix of conservative and liberal ( 9 % say his views are all or mostly liberal ) . But among Republicans , beliefs about Trump 's views tend to mirror their own : 57 % of conservative Republicans and leaners say Trump 's views are all or mostly conservative , while moderate Republicans are more likely to think of him as having a mix of conservative and liberal views ( 34 % say his views are conservative , 52 % say they are a mix ) .
These findings are based on the most recent installment of the weekly News Interest Index , an ongoing project of the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . The index , building on the Center 's longstanding research into public attentiveness to major news stories , examines news interest as it relates to the news media 's agenda . The weekly survey is conducted in conjunction with The Project for Excellence in Journalism 's News Coverage Index , which monitors the news reported by major newspaper , television , radio and online news outlets on an ongoing basis . In the most recent week , data relating to news coverage was collected from March 10 - 16 and survey data measuring public interest in the top news stories of the week was collected March 14 - 17 from a nationally representative sample of 1,005 adults .
Overall , 15 % of blacks and 18 % of Latinos have used ride-hailing , similar to the 14 % of whites who have done so , according to a Pew Research Center survey exploring the digital economy . And a new analysis of this survey data finds that Americans who live in majority-minority communities ( census-block groups where more than 50 % of residents are racial or ethnic minorities ) are more likely than those who reside in predominately white neighborhoods to say that ride-hailing apps serve neighborhoods that taxis wo n't visit . Just over half ( 53 % ) of ride-hailing users living in majority-minority communities feel that this statement describes ride-hailing well , compared with 46 % of users living in majority-white neighborhoods . ( Many ride-hailers – about four-in-ten overall – were unsure if this statement described ride-hailing well ) . In sharp contrast to ride-hailing services , few blacks make use of home-sharing sites like Airbnb and VRBO : Just 5 % of blacks have ever used these services , compared with 13 % of whites . And although blacks are less likely than whites to say they travel overnight away from home for work or personal reasons , even among those who do travel on occasion , whites ( 16 % ) are still substantially more likely than blacks ( 5 % ) to use home-sharing services .
Remarkably , 72 % said most people in Hungary are actually worse off today economically than they were under communism , while only 8 % said most people are better off and 16 % said things are about the same . Again , Hungary stands apart from the other post-communist societies surveyed — in no other country did so many believe that economic life is worse now than during the communist era .
Some Hispanics say they have changed how they outwardly show their identities over the past five years , a period that roughly starts with the launch of Trump 's presidential campaign . Before the outbreak , over a third ( 35 % ) of Hispanics said they more often outwardly express their Hispanic identity than five years ago by speaking Spanish in public ( 24 % ) , talking about their pride in being Hispanic ( 25 % ) or wearing clothing that shows their Hispanic heritage ( 10 % ) . Meanwhile , a similar share of Hispanics ( 33 % ) said they more often express their U.S. identity by speaking only English in public ( 21 % ) , talking about their pride in being American ( 17 % ) or wearing clothing that shows their U.S. pride ( 11 % ) . Public expressions of identity differed greatly by party affiliation . About four-in-ten ( 44 % ) Hispanic Republicans said they outwardly express their U.S. pride compared with five years ago . Roughly three-in-ten ( 29 % ) of Hispanic Democrats said the same .
The survey also found that more than four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 45 % ) think the country has n't gone far enough in giving black people equal rights with whites , while 15 % say it 's gone too far and 39 % say it 's been about right . About eight-in-ten black adults ( 78 % ) say the country has n't made enough progress in this area , compared with 37 % of whites and 48 % of Hispanics . ( Because this question was asked of a random half of the sample , the views of Asians ca n't be analyzed separately ; for more information , see `` A note about the Asian sample . '' )
Across these five non-European countries , evaluations of how well the European Union handled COVID-19 varied widely . In both Canada and the U.S. , around six-in-ten or more said the EU had done a good job when surveyed this summer . In Australia , evaluations were mixed : 46 % approved of the EU 's handling of the global pandemic while 45 % said it had done a poor job . And in Japan and South Korea , half or more said the EU had done a bad job dealing with the outbreak ( 52 % and 78 % , respectively ) . While overall favorability of the EU also varied widely across these countries – from a low of 47 % in Japan to a high of 71 % in Canada – in each country , perceptions of how well the EU had done handling COVID-19 is related to favorability of the EU .
According to South Africa 's 2011 census , average annual household income for blacks was 60,613 rand ( roughly $ 8,700 at the then-current exchange rate ) , about a sixth the average annual income among white households and a quarter that of Asian households . Mixed-race ( or `` coloured '' in South African parlance ) households had an average income about twice that of blacks . ( Note that those figures are in current dollars , and so are n't directly comparable to the inflation-adjusted ones in the Economist chart . )
Another reason why Hispanics lag in bachelor 's degrees is that nearly half who go to college attend a public two-year school , or community college , the highest share of any race or ethnicity . By comparison , among college-goers , 30 % of whites , 32 % of Asians and 36 % of blacks go to a community college .
The American public has long expressed negative views of some of Donald Trump 's personal traits and behaviors , including his temperament and his tweeting . A new national survey finds that just 15 % of U.S. adults say they like the way he conducts himself as president . A far larger share ( 53 % ) say they do n't like how he conducts himself , while another 30 % say they have mixed feelings .
As part of his economic agenda , Peña Nieto proposed allowing private international investment in the oil and gas industry for the first time in over 75 years , legislation that was recently finalized by the Mexican Congress . Under the new laws , private companies will be able to conduct oil exploration in Mexico , including through partnerships with Pemex , the state-owned petroleum company . The survey asked whether respondents support or oppose allowing companies from other countries to invest in Pemex . A majority of Mexicans ( 57 % ) oppose opening up Pemex to foreign businesses . Only about a third ( 34 % ) approve . Even PRI supporters are divided ( 44 % support vs. 46 % oppose ) .
A spring 2015 Pew Research Center survey also raised questions about the willingness of people in a number of NATO nations to carry through with a key commitment to the alliance . Despite tensions with Russia growing out of the Ukraine conflict , NATO members polled were divided on whether their countries should provide military support to an ally if it got into a military conflict with Russia . A median of 48 % across eight NATO nations said their country should use military force to defend allies , while 42 % among these members are opposed to using force . Yet only in the U.S. and Canada did more than half think their country should use military action if Russia attacks a fellow NATO member ( 56 % and 53 % , respectively ) . Germans ( 58 % ) were the most likely to say their country should not use military force .
The publics surveyed also see Trump more negatively than other world leaders . Among the six leaders included on the survey , Angela Merkel receives the highest marks : A median of 76 % across the nations polled have confidence in the German chancellor . French President Emmanuel Macron also gets largely favorable reviews . Ratings for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson are roughly split . Ratings for Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping are overwhelmingly negative , although not as negative as those for Trump .
Overall , Clinton supporters are much more confident of victory than are Trump supporters . Fully 92 % of registered voters who support Clinton for president expect her to win ; 69 % of Trump supporters expect him to win .
There continue to be wide demographic differences on how much partisan control of Congress matters . Just 48 % of voters younger than 30 say it `` really matters '' which party wins control of Congress . The share placing high importance of partisan control increases with age , reaching 83 % among voters 65 and older .
At the other end of the spectrum , in France , only 48 % say they use social networking sites . That figure is even lower in Greece ( 46 % ) , Japan ( 43 % ) and Germany ( 37 % ) . In Germany , this means that more than half of internet users say they do not use social media .
White voters were more likely than Black or Hispanic voters to say they had gotten political news from Trump and his campaign in the past week . Three-in-ten white voters said this , compared with 23 % of Hispanic and 18 % of Black voters . On the other hand , Black voters ( 32 % ) were more likely than white or Hispanic voters ( 23 % each ) to say they 'd gotten news from Biden or his campaign in the past week .
In January 2010 , when Pew Research asked how many senators are needed to break a filibuster , only about a quarter ( 26 % ) knew the correct answer , 60 . Almost as many thought only 51 votes were needed — in fact , the rules change that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid is threatening to adopt , at least in regard to presidential appointments — while more than a third ( 37 % ) would n't even venture a guess .
Among those who disapprove of Trump , 65 % of self-identified Democrats say they do n't think those with a different view of Trump share their other values and goals . Among those who disapprove of Trump and lean toward the Democratic Party ( but do n't identify with it ) , views are more mixed : 47 % think those with a different view of Trump probably share many of their other values and goals , while 52 % think they probably do not .
Among Democratic voters , those with a college degree are more skeptical about their party 's chances in the Senate than are those without a college degree . As many college graduate Democratic voters expect the GOP to win a majority in the Senate as say they expect the Democratic Party to win the most seats ( both 49 % ) . By contrast , a majority of Democratic voters without a college degree ( 71 % ) expect the party to win a majority in the Senate this fall . There are no educational differences among Democrats in expectations for the House and there no significant differences among Republican voters by education in expectations for the House or Senate .
When should women who want to advance professionally have children ? The public is split — 36 % say that having kids early in her career is the way to go for a woman who wants to `` reach a top executive position , '' while 40 % say it 's better for a woman to hold off until she 's well established in her career . And another one-fifth say that women who want to advance up the career ladder should not have kids at all , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
1 College-educated households with student loans to repay have a lower net worth than those with no student debt . Young college-educated households with no student debt have the highest net worth by far . They have about seven times the net worth of households with student debt . Non-college educated households with outstanding student debt are in the worst position in terms of wealth accumulation . They lag behind their fellow student debtors who graduated from college , and they also trail young adults without a college degree who are free of student debt .
Among veterans , 64 % say the war in Iraq was not worth fighting considering the costs versus the benefits to the United States , while 33 % say it was . The general public 's views are nearly identical : 62 % of Americans overall say the Iraq War was n't worth it and 32 % say it was . Similarly , majorities of both veterans ( 58 % ) and the public ( 59 % ) say the war in Afghanistan was not worth fighting . About four-in-ten or fewer say it was worth fighting .
To be sure , at least half of U.S. Catholics think Francis is doing a `` good '' or `` excellent '' job on the sex abuse issue and the environment . Over half ( 55 % ) of Catholics rated Francis positively on addressing sex abuse ( 19 % `` excellent , '' 36 % `` good '' ) , and 53 % gave him high marks on environmental issues ( 18 % `` excellent , '' 35 % `` good '' ) , according to our survey conducted in May and early June . But out of nine areas where respondents were asked to rate the pope , these were the two in which Francis drew the least positive ratings .
Overall , more Americans perceive fact-checkers as fair than say the same of news organizations more generally – but news organizations , too , elicit sharply divergent views from members of the two parties . Roughly seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) say news organizations tend to favor one side when covering political and social issues – notably higher than the half who say the same about fact-checkers . Republicans are 32 points more likely than Democrats to have this view , though majorities of both parties say this ( 89 % of Republicans vs. 57 % of Democrats ) , and again , independents fall in between ( 72 % ) . The partisan difference on this question is on par with the prior two years it has been asked , and is larger than at any time in the previous three decades except in 2007 , at the end of President George W. Bush 's second term in office .
Fully 64 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters say Trump would make a terrible president . That is by far the highest percentage among the seven GOP candidates in the survey .
Nearly six-in-ten registered voters ( 57 % ) who support Clinton say it is a lot more difficult to be black than white , while 29 % say it is a little more difficult and 13 % say it is no more difficult . Among Trump supporters just 11 % think it is a lot more difficult to be black than white , 42 % say it is a little more difficult and 44 % think it is no more difficult . Clinton supporters are divided racially and ideologically on both questions . About half of white Clinton supporters ( 53 % ) say it is lot more difficult to be black than white ; that is less than the share of black Clinton supporters who say this ( 67 % ) . However , just 10 % of white Trump supporters say it is much more difficult to be black than white .
Views about Erdogan are also correlated with religiosity . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of Muslim Turks who pray five times a day assign the prime minister a positive rating . Among those who pray at least once a week but less than five times daily , views are essentially split ( 51 % good , 47 % bad ) . And among those who hardly ever pray or only do so during religious holidays , just 36 % say Erdogan is having good impact .
By far the biggest single import is crude oil : The U.S. bought $ 246.5 billion worth of overseas crude last year . Along with various other petroleum products , natural gas and other energy sources , energy imports in 2014 totaled nearly $ 355 billion , according to our analysis of detailed trade data from the Census Bureau . ( The country spent even more on computer , electronics and telecommunications equipment , which the Census Bureau splits into several different categories : $ 360 billion or more , depending on what you include . ) No single product category dominates U.S. exports the way energy does with imports . The country exports everything from civilian aircraft ( $ 57.9 billion last year ) to `` hair and waste materials '' ( $ 660 million ) . But the nation 's energy exports have soared in recent years : They totaled $ 167.1 billion last year , versus $ 24.6 billion in 2004 , mostly in the form of fuel oil and other petroleum products .
When it comes to the issues at the forefront of voters ' minds , the economy tops the list , with 84 % of voters – and similar shares across most demographic and political groups – saying it is very important to their vote . Terrorism also ranks high across the political spectrum .
Among Republicans , nearly half ( 46 % ) view Israelis favorably and Palestinians unfavorably . Yet almost as many Republicans hold some other combination of opinions , including 30 % who feel favorably toward both peoples . Democrats , by contrast , are more likely to view both Israelis and Palestinians positively ( 46 % are favorable to both peoples ) . The pattern of opinion is different in views of the two governments . About half of Democrats ( 53 % ) have unfavorable views of both governments ; that is larger than the shares with mixed views or favorable views of both governments . Among Republicans , 51 % view the Israeli government favorably and the Palestinian government unfavorably , which is larger than the shares giving other sets of opinions .
Among adult whites , 89 percent finish high school and nearly 30 percent a college degree . Among Hispanics only 57 percent finish high school and about 10 percent earn a college degree . But , these averages are deceptive . More than half of Latino adults are first generation , i.e . foreign-born immigrants . Few arrive young enough to attend U.S. schools . But 73 percent of U.S.-born Latino adults finish high school , 40 percent obtain some college education , and 14 percent earn at least a four-year degree . Native versus immigrant experiences are critically different when it comes to high school completion , the greatest educational difficulty facing Hispanic children . Only about 7 percent of white children drop out . The statistics suggest that about 15 percent of native Latino children drop out compared with 44 percent of immigrant children . For some Latino immigrants this reflects their experience in U.S. schools , but many others , especially those who arrive as older adolescents , never `` drop in , '' that is they go straight to work while their American peers are still studying . The Department of Education finds that more than half of Latino immigrant dropouts never enroll in schools here . However , immigrant children arriving before the eighth grade do much better in U.S. schools . These youngsters have an easier time adjusting and go on to finish high school and reach college at rates similar to native Latino children .
When asked about eight potential threats to their country , Russians said that Islamic extremist groups pose the biggest danger according to a Spring 2013 survey by the Pew Research Center . More than half ( 53 % ) claimed such groups were a major threat , trumping other potential dangers such as international financial instability ( 46 % ) and global climate change ( 46 % ) . Women ( 57 % ) were more likely than men ( 49 % ) to consider such extremism a major threat .
Globally , a median of 30 % think the Russian government respects the personal freedom of its people . In North America , people in both the U.S. ( 80 % ) and Canada ( 73 % ) feel strongly that the Russian government does not respect civil liberties . In Europe , roughly eight-in-ten feel the same way in Sweden , the Netherlands , France , Poland and Germany . Greeks are the most likely to say Russia protects individual freedoms ( 43 % ) . Contrasting views on Russia 's respect for personal freedoms are found in both Asia and the Middle East . Majorities in Australia ( 75 % ) , Japan ( 61 % ) and South Korea ( 56 % ) doubt the Russian government on this score , compared with most Vietnamese ( 85 % ) and Filipinos ( 59 % ) who think Russia is protecting civil liberties at home .
A third of Americans say they have heard a lot about the possible withdrawal of U.S. troops , while 46 % say they have heard a little ; 19 % say they have heard nothing about this . Republicans and Democrats are about equally likely to have heard about plans for withdrawal .
Less than half ( 47 % ) of Cuban registered voters nationwide now say they identify with or lean toward the Republican Party—down from the 64 % who said the same about the GOP a decade ago , according to 2013 survey data . Meanwhile , the share of Cubans who identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party has doubled from 22 % to 44 % over the same time period , according to the survey of Hispanics .
The public views tougher regulations on financial institutions as an important priority for Congress , but far more want Congress to take action on the job situation and energy policy . In thinking about financial regulation , as many say they worry that the government will go too far in regulating financial markets , making it harder for the economy to grow , as say they worry that the government will not go far enough , leaving the country at risk of another financial crisis .
9 In the digital news environment , the role of friends and family is prominent – and for some it 's an echo chamber . Among online news consumers , conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats are more likely than more moderate members of each party to say the news they get from family and friends online represents just one side . And about half ( 51 % ) of conservative Republicans who said they see mostly one-sided news say this is OK – a larger share than among all other political groups , including liberal Democrats ( 34 % ) .
Indians ' love for Modi runs across the country . Fully 87 % of Indians have a favorable view of Modi , including a strong majority ( 68 % ) who see the prime minister very favorably . And among all respondents – men and women , the young and old , the urban and rural populations and members of the three national political parties – a majority holds very favorable views of the prime minister . One exception is supporters of the main opposition party , the Indian National Congress . Furthermore , among seven global issues , Indians are most concerned about climate change . Over seven-in-ten Indians ( 73 % ) are very concerned about global climate change , compared with 49 % who are concerned with global economic instability , the second-highest response .
Many Americans continued to track the transition last week – 36 % say they followed transition developments very closely – but with the debate in Congress over a multi-billion dollar plan to help the Detroit automakers stave off bankruptcy , official news that the nation was in recession , and reports that more than 500,000 jobs were lost in November , the public focused even more closely on economic news . Four-in-ten ( 42 % ) followed economic news very closely ; another 38 % followed developments fairly closely . Reports about unemployment attracted the very close attention of 40 % . In addition , 34 % paid very close attention to the debate in Congress over government help for domestic automakers .
The federal Bureau of Labor Statistics recently reported that the 10 largest occupations ( as of May 2013 ) , accounting for more than a fifth of all U.S. wage and salary jobs , are predominantly low-paid ones — cashiers , sales clerks , fast-food workers and the like . That 's broadly been the pattern in U.S. employment for many years . But overall employment has become more concentrated in those largest occupational categories over the past decade or so , and well-paying jobs account for a smaller share of them .
Data on the age composition of the global refugee population is incomplete , but estimates suggest that the majority of refugees worldwide are children and adolescents below the age of 18 . Consequently , a high share of children and adolescent refugees entering the U.S. each year is consistent with the makeup of refugees worldwide .
The scholars surveyed differ from the American general public when measuring how various countries and multilateral institutions have handled the coronavirus outbreak . For example , more experts give China high marks for its handling of the pandemic , with 61 % saying China did a good job compared with only 31 % of the American public saying the same . Across 14 countries , a similarly low median of 37 % say China has done a good job of handling COVID-19 . In evaluating the U.S. response , only 3 % of the scholars say the U.S. has done a good job of containing the outbreak compared with 47 % of Americans who say the same . On this measure , IR scholars are more closely aligned with the view across all 14 nations , who generally see the U.S. response to the virus as poor .
Examining the annual change on a quarterly basis suggests a change in the trend occurred in mid-2006 ( Figure 12 ) . In 2004 , apprehensions in every quarter were substantially higher than in the same quarter of 2003 , with increases ranging from 23,000 in the fourth quarter to 109,000 in the second quarter . During the first two quarters of 2005 , apprehensions were down somewhat compared to the same quarters of 2004 , but quarter-to-quarter increases were registered through the second half of 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 . For four quarters in a row since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have decreased on an annual basis . The sharpest drop occurred in the first quarter of 2007 , when there were 122,000 fewer apprehensions than in the first quarter of 2006 . Analyzing the rate of annual change on a quarterly basis paints a similar picture ( Figure 13 ) . In percentage terms , apprehensions grew solidly in every quarter of 2004 compared to the same quarters of 2003 , with increases averaging 25 % . The trend was slightly negative in the first ( -2 % ) and second ( -1 % ) quarters of 2005 before it picked up for the next three quarters , which averaged gains of 9 % . Since the second quarter of 2006 , apprehensions have been down by an average of 27 % in every quarter compared to the same quarter in the previous year .
Yet the good feelings among blacks after Barack Obama 's election co-exist with a persistent belief that discrimination and unfairness remain a part of life for African Americans in this country . To take a recent example , in May fully 88 % said there was a lot or some discrimination against blacks , with 46 % seeing a lot of discrimination . A majority of whites ( 57 % ) also saw at least some discrimination against blacks , but just 16 % said there was a lot of discrimination .
Majorities of Americans say the federal government does not provide enough help for older people ( 65 % ) , poor people ( 62 % ) and the middle class ( 61 % ) . By contrast , nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say the government provides too much help for wealthy people .
Furthermore , among seven global issues , Indians are most concerned about climate change . Over seven-in-ten Indians ( 73 % ) are very concerned about global climate change , compared with 49 % who are concerned with global economic instability , the second-highest response .
Turnout in the 2006 midterm election may well be higher than normal , given the level of interest expressed by voters . Today , 51 % of voters say they have given a lot of thought to this November 's election , up from 45 % at this point in 2002 and 42 % in early October of 1998 . Even in 1994 – a recent high in midterm election turnout – just 44 % of voters had thought a lot about the election in early October .
Support for the National Front is somewhat stronger among men , the less educated , and Catholics – though even among these groups , support is limited . In 2016 , support stood at 28 % among men , 26 % among those with no college degree and 27 % among self-identified Roman Catholics .
Three main election themes dominated the coverage . The end of the presidential campaign — which encompassed coverage on just two days , was the No . 1 story , accounting for 27 % of the week 's newshole . Coverage of the election results — including straight reporting and analysis — was No . 2 , filling another 21 % . And coverage of the incoming Obama administration — which began on Nov. 5 and looked forward — was right behind , also accounting for 21 % of the newshole .
The Syrian civil war , now in its seventh year , pits many of the region 's key players against each other . Few are optimistic that the war will end within the next year , though many believe it will not last beyond the next five years . Views are most optimistic in Jordan . Fully 80 % expect the war in Syria to end sometime in the next five years , including 32 % who think it will end within the year . Syrians living in Jordan are even more hopeful about the war in their homeland ; 64 % expect it will end within the year , 26 % say it will end within the next five years and only 10 % think it will continue for more than five years . Roughly two-thirds in Israel say the war will be over within the next five years , and 48 % in Lebanon agree .
Muslims in Lebanon are also less likely to identify primarily with their religion , rather than with their country , with equal numbers saying they think of themselves first as Muslim ( 30 % ) and saying they identify primarily as Lebanese ( 30 % ) . Elsewhere , majorities or pluralities of Muslims identify more strongly with Islam than with their nationality — in many cases by lopsided proportions . Even in Turkey — a country with a long-running tradition of secularism — Muslim identifiers outnumber those who identify primarily as Turks by 13 percentage points .
Among all registered voters , Democrats hold an edge in congressional elections , with 46 % of voters saying they will vote ( or have already voted ) for the Democratic candidate in their district and 40 % saying they support the Republican candidate . About one-in-ten voters ( 11 % ) are not sure whom they will support . Trump voters and Biden voters overwhelmingly say they support the same party 's candidate for the congressional race in their district ( 83 % of each say they will support a candidate of the same party ) . Voters who support minor-party candidates for president are about evenly divided in their vote for the House of Representatives ( 29 % support the Democrat and 31 % support the Republican ) .
The same report found that Americans overwhelmingly support limits on campaign contributions and believe new laws could reduce the role of money in politics . Around three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 77 % ) said there should be limits on the amount of money that individuals and groups can spend on political campaigns , while 20 % said individuals and groups should be able to spend as much as they want . And around two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) said new laws could be written to effectively reduce the role of money in politics , while 31 % said such laws would not be effective .
However , this level of confidence does not extend across all civic activities . It seems to plunge as soon as politics enter the picture . U.S. adults render a split verdict on whether they can count on fellow Americans to accept election results regardless of who wins : 53 % express `` a fair amount '' or `` a great deal '' of confidence that others will accept the results , while 47 % say they have `` not too much '' or `` no confidence at all '' that others will accept the election outcome . Americans also are split on whether they can rely on others to reconsider their views after learning new information ( 49 % have at least some confidence , 50 % little or none ) , stay informed about important issues and events ( 49 % vs. 51 % ) and respect the rights of people who are not like them ( 48 % vs. 52 % ) . Moreover , in some areas Americans do not expect others to act in civically helpful ways . Some 58 % of adults are not confident that others can hold civil conversations with people who have different views , and 57 % are not confident others will cast informed votes in elections .
As violence and chaos spreads in Iraq , the public is wary of U.S. involvement in the country . A 55 % majority says the United States does not have a responsibility to do something about the violence in Iraq ; 39 % do see a responsibility to act .
After years of trying to persuade Hispanics to choose a standard race category , the Census Bureau has been testing a new approach , with what the agency says are promising results . In 2015 , the bureau contacted 1.2 million U.S. households for a test census that experimented with two different ways of combining the Hispanic and race questions into one question ( and included a proposed new `` Middle Eastern or North African '' category as well ) . Respondents could self-identify in as many categories as they wanted , or only one .
Again , on balance , foreign publics lack confidence in Trump to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs . The survey , conducted in spring and summer 2019 , finds that the lack of confidence in the 45th U.S. president is driven in part by opposition to his policies . A median of 68 % across the nations polled say they disapprove of the U.S. increasing tariffs on imported goods ; a median of 66 % oppose the Trump administration 's withdrawal from international climate agreements ; and 60 % disapprove of Trump 's proposal to build a wall on the border with Mexico .
When it comes to accessing the internet on a mobile device such as a laptop or cell phone , young non-students ( 79 % of whom are wireless users ) are a bit less likely to go online wirelessly than either undergraduate or graduate students , but notably more likely than the overall adult population to do so . These differences in wireless usage between students and non-students are largely driven by differences in laptop computer ownership .
Hispanics are more likely than Americans overall to say they or someone in their household has experienced a pay cut or lost their job because of the coronavirus outbreak , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted March 19 - 24 . Around half ( 49 % ) of Hispanics say they or someone in their household has taken a pay cut or lost a job – or both – because of the COVID-19 outbreak , compared with 33 % of all U.S. adults . Among both Hispanics and the wider public , more people say someone has experienced a pay cut or a reduction in work hours than say someone was laid off or lost a job ( 40 % vs. 29 % among Hispanics , 27 % vs. 20 % among all Americans ) . A recent Center analysis found about 8 million Hispanic workers were employed in restaurants , hotels and other service-sector positions that are at higher risk of job loss .
By the end of the week , Palin and Clinton were the second and third-leading newsmakers of the week from Nov. 10 - 16 , trailing only the president-elect . These are among the findings of the first full post-election week of the News Coverage Index for Nov. 10 - 16 , a weekly study of the media agenda from the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
The public is mixed when it comes to the potential impact that more Americans owning guns would have on crime in the U.S . Comparable shares say that if more Americans owned guns , there would be more crime ( 37 % ) or there would be no impact on the amount of crime ( 33 % ) . About one-in-three say there would be less crime .
The internet ranks high among sources of information and advice that people are seeking during hard times , especially when it comes to their personal finances and economic circumstances . At the same time , broadcast media outpace the internet as sources of news about national economics and broadcast sources still overshadow the internet among all Americans for information and advice related to their personal financial circumstances .
Those voters who hold ideologically mixed viewpoints are less likely than the average to see their vote in partisan terms ( 26 % say the parties are not a factor ) . A 46 % plurality say that voting for their party is the driving factor in their vote , while 27 % say they are voting against the other party .
About two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) feel worn out by the amount of news there is , while far fewer ( 32 % ) say they like the amount of news they are getting , according to a Pew Research Center survey of more than 12,000 U.S. adults conducted in October and November of last year – the first survey in the Center 's nearly yearlong Election News Pathways project . This feeling of news fatigue has n't escaped journalists either , some of whom have voiced their exhaustion with the news cycle and the seemingly endless stream of information . In addition to differences by party and level of news engagement , one demographic divide stands out : race and ethnicity . Roughly three-quarters of white Americans ( 72 % ) feel news fatigue , 17 percentage points higher than both black ( 55 % ) and Hispanic Americans ( 55 % ) – and again similar to the divide measured in 2018 . Women are also slightly more likely than men to feel worn out by the amount of news there is ( 69 % vs. 63 % ) . But this sense of exhaustion with the news is about on par across age groups and levels of education .
Overall , voters are less confident that their vote will be accurately counted in the upcoming election than they were in 2008 and 2004 . In both 2008 ( 57 % ) and 2004 ( 62 % ) , a majority of voters were `` very '' confident , compared with just under half who feel this way today ( 49 % ) .
The new survey also finds that as some states have legalized marijuana – placing them at odds with the federal prohibition against marijuana – a majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say that the federal government should not enforce laws in states that allow marijuana use ; 37 % say that they should enforce these laws . Views on federal enforcement of marijuana laws are unchanged since the question was first asked two years ago .
Overall , most Americans say either that the U.S. `` stands above all other countries '' ( 24 % ) or that it is `` one of the greatest countries , along with some others '' ( 55 % ) . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) say `` there are other countries that are better than the U.S . ''
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of the nation 's unauthorized immigrant population are Hispanics . The majority of undocumented immigrants ( 59 % ) are from Mexico , numbering 7 million . Significant regional sources of unauthorized immigrants include Asia ( 11 % ) , Central America ( 11 % ) , South America ( 7 % ) , the Caribbean ( 4 % ) and the Middle East ( less than 2 % ) . Unauthorized immigrants are spread more broadly than in the past into states where relatively few had settled two decades ago . This is especially true in Georgia , North Carolina and other southeastern states . Long-time immigrant destinations , including Florida , Illinois , New Jersey , New York and Texas , also have retained their appeal to undocumented migrants .
Republicans and Democrats differ over the impact of billionaires . While a majority of Republicans ( 62 % ) say having billionaires in this country is neither bad nor good , more view this positively ( 28 % ) than negatively ( 9 % ) .
More adults ( 31 % ) say the health care law has had a mostly negative effect on themselves and their families than say it has had a mostly positive one ( 23 % ) , while 45 % say it not has had much of an effect . The share saying the law has not has much an effect has declined over the past three years , but the balance of opinion about the law 's personal impact has remained more negative than positive .
There are substantial partisan gaps in views of discrimination against religious groups . For example , Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say Muslims face at least some discrimination in the U.S. ( 92 % vs. 69 % ) . Democrats also are more likely than Republicans to say Jews face discrimination ( 70 % vs. 55 % ) . At the same time , Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say evangelicals face discrimination ( 70 % vs. 32 % ) .
Republicans remain more skeptical than Democrats about the seriousness of Iranian leaders . Fully 80 % of Republicans who have heard at least a little about the negotiations say Iranian leaders are not serious about addressing international concerns over the country 's nuclear program . A majority of independents ( 64 % ) and only about half of Democrats ( 48 % ) say Iranian leaders are not serious about addressing these concerns ( based on those who have heard at least a little about U.S.-Iran negotiations ) .
Most Americans favor expanding solar power ( 92 % ) or wind power ( 85 % ) , including strong majorities of both Republicans and Democrats . The public , however , is evenly divided over whether to expand nuclear power ( 49 % on each side ) . Fewer than half of Americans support more offshore oil and gas drilling ( 42 % ) , hydraulic fracturing for oil and natural gas , known as `` fracking '' ( 38 % ) or coal mining ( 35 % ) .
Two-thirds of Republican attenders say their house of worship is open to the public with changes as a result of the coronavirus outbreak , while 43 % of Democrats say this . Democratic congregants are more likely than Republicans to say that their houses of worship are closed altogether ( 42 % vs. 23 % ) . And small shares in both parties say that their houses of worship are currently open to the public and operating in the same way that they did before the outbreak ( 7 % of Republicans say this , as do 5 % of Democrats ) .
Cell phones are owned by overwhelmingly large majorities of people in most major countries around the world , and they are used for much more than just phone calls . In particular , text messaging is a global phenomenon – across the 21 countries surveyed , a median of 75 % of cell phone owners say they text .
Today , six out of every ten American adults use social networking sites , which are bringing new tone and texture to dating . Among social networking site users with recent dating experience ( whom we define as those who are single and looking or who have been in a relationship for 10 years or less ) , 30 % have used social media to find out more information about someone they were interested in dating . Another 12 % have friended or followed someone on a social networking site because one of their friends suggested they could be a good romantic match . These social media users who are looking for love are particularly likely to be young . Some 41 % of users with recent dating experience between the ages of 18 and 29 have used sites like Twitter or Facebook to get more information on a potential date . An additional 18 % have friended or followed someone from a friend 's recommendation .
The age divide in voting , which barely existed in the early 2000s , also is large . Majorities of voters ages 18 to 29 ( 67 % ) and 30 to 44 ( 58 % ) favored the Democratic candidate . Voters ages 45 and older were divided ( 50 % Republican , 49 % Democrat ) .
The public continues to have divided views of Barack Obama 's job performance : 46 % approve and 49 % disapprove of the way he is handling his job as president . His overall rating is little changed over the course of 2015 . Obama 's ratings for handling the economy ( 43 % approve ) and immigration policy ( 37 % approve ) are more negative than positive . He receives mixed ratings for his handling of global climate change ( 45 % approve , 40 % disapprove ) and race relations ( 44 % approve , 47 % disapprove ) .
While curiosity was the most common reason given across topics , those most interested in food and nutrition were less curiosity-driven and less likely to see enjoyment in talking about science as a reason for following science news . Additionally , space and astronomy enthusiasts were least likely to say they follow science news because it helps them make decisions about their everyday lives ( 40 % , vs. 55 % or higher among those most interested in other topics listed ) .
Those who say the government is responsible for making sure all Americans have health coverage are divided over how health insurance should be provided . While 27 % of adults support a single national government program , a similar share ( 24 % ) say universal health care should be provided through a mix of private insurance companies and government programs .
The share of Americans who live in middle class households is shrinking . The share of U.S. adults living in middle-income households fell to 50 % in 2015 , after more than four decades in which those households served as the nation 's economic majority . And the financial gaps between middle- and upper-income Americans have widened , with upper-income households holding 49 % of U.S. aggregate household income ( up from 29 % in 1970 ) and seven times as much wealth as middle-income households ( up from three times as much in 1983 ) . Most Americans say the government does n't do enough to help the middle class , and neither political party is widely viewed as a champion for middle-class interests .
There is a division on ideological lines among Democrats on whether a vote for Trump would strain a friendship . Liberal Democrats are about evenly divided between saying say their friendship would be strained ( 47 % ) if a friend said they voted for Trump and saying it would not have any effect ( 51 % ) . Far more conservative and moderate Democrats say a friend voting for Trump would not have any effect ( 73 % ) than say it would put a strain on the friendship ( 25 % ) .
For people who do have online access , social networking is popular nearly everywhere , but especially in the emerging world . For example , nearly nine-in-ten online Jordanians , Indonesians , Filipinos and Venezuelans report using social networks . This compares with only 57 % of online French , 54 % of online South Koreans and half of online Germans . This also means that among internet users , social networking is more popular in the Middle East and Latin America than it is in the U.S. and Europe . Internet access is strongly tied to per-capita national income . Richer countries in the survey tend to have higher rates of internet access or smartphone ownership compared with poorer nations . This also holds true when emerging and developing nations are compared with each other . While there is a strong correlation in this relationship , as middle-income countries approach total internet saturation it is likely that this association will diminish .
Roughly seven-in-ten U.S. teens ( 72 % ) say they use the site . Surpassed only by YouTube , Instagram ranks as the second most popular platform among Americans in this age group , according to a survey conducted in March and April of 2018 . Separately , 15 % of teens say Instagram is the platform they use `` most often . '' That 's lower than the shares who say the same about Snapchat ( 35 % ) and YouTube ( 32 % ) .
In Turkey , where a longstanding ban on head scarves in schools and public buildings has come under increasing attack from Muslim activists , 64 % of the public calls such a ban a bad idea compared with 29 % who view it as a good idea . Lebanon weighs in against head scarf bans by 59 % opposed to 29 % in favor , while even larger majorities in Jordan ( 97 % ) , Indonesia ( 95 % ) , Morocco ( 90 % ) and Pakistan ( 77 % ) call them a bad idea .
When asked more generally about the ideal situation for men and women with young children – rather than about what works best for them personally – about three-quarters of U.S. adults ( 76 % ) say working full time is ideal for fathers , while just 33 % think this is the ideal situation for mothers . About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say working part time is ideal for women with young children , while 21 % say not working for pay at all is ideal for this group .
Military officers have considerably higher levels of educational attainment , on average , than enlisted personnel and U.S. adults . More than eight-in-ten DOD active-duty officers have at least a bachelor 's degree , including 42 % who hold an advanced degree . They are four times as likely as average adults ages 18 to 44 to have completed a postgraduate degree . The educational profile of enlisted personnel is much different . The vast majority of enlisted personnel ( 92 % ) have completed high school or some college . This compares with 60 % of all U.S. adults ages 18 to 44 . Fewer than one-in-ten enlisted personnel ( 7 % ) have a bachelor 's degree , compared with 19 % of all adults ages 18 to 44 .
Women are more likely than men to support raising the federal minimum wage to $ 15 an hour ( 72 % vs. 61 % , respectively ) . About nine-in-ten black Americans ( 93 % ) support this increase – including 80 % who express strong support – compared with about three-quarters of Hispanics ( 73 % ) and six-in-ten whites . In contrast , there are more modest ideological differences on this issue among Democrats . Overwhelming majorities of both liberal Democrats ( 91 % ) and conservative and moderate Democrats ( 82 % ) favor raising the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour , but liberal Democrats are substantially more likely to say they strongly favor this policy ( 68 % vs. 51 % ) .
While the public offers mixed views of Obama 's effectiveness in a gridlocked political environment , most say he fights hard to get his policies passed ( 67 % ) and 76 % describe him as someone who stands up for what he believes in . Both impressions hold with majorities of Republicans , Democrats and independents . Views of his leadership and effectiveness , by contrast , are highly polarized .
While a 57 % majority of conservative Republicans and leaners think the Supreme Court should overturn the decision , just 27 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say the same . In fact , 71 % of moderate and liberal Republicans think the court should not completely overturn Roe v. Wade . Majorities across all levels of education say the court should not overturn Roe v. Wade . Still , higher levels of education are associated with less support for overturning the decision : Nearly nine-in-ten of those with postgraduate degrees ( 88 % ) say the court should not overturn the decision , compared with about seven-in-ten of those with a college degree ( 74 % ) or some college experience ( 70 % ) and 62 % of those with a high school diploma or less education .
Seven-in-ten college graduates ( 70 % ) say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , as do 60 % of those with some college education . A slim majority of those with a high school degree or less education share this opinion : 54 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 44 % say it should be illegal in all or most cases .
With violence continuing to rage in Egypt , 51 % of Americans say it is better for the United States to cut off military aid to Egypt to put pressure on the government . This is nearly double the percentage ( 26 % ) saying it is better to continue military aid to the government in order to maintain influence in Egypt .
However , political tweeters are more evenly divided : 48 % expect the news they see on social media to be largely accurate , while a comparable share ( 51 % ) expects it to be largely inaccurate . Other Twitter users with public accounts are more skeptical : 64 % of nonpolitical tweeters and 58 % of infrequent tweeters say they approach news stories from social media sites with the expectation that they will be largely inaccurate .
The debate over the safety of genetically modified foods has put state lawmakers who favor requiring labeling of these products at odds with counterparts in Congress who oppose it . Americans ' concerns about GM foods are providing the backdrop : A majority of them believe such foods are generally unsafe to eat . More than half ( 57 % ) of U.S. adults believe that GM foods are generally unsafe to eat , while 37 % say these foods are safe , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Women are more likely than men to view GM foods as unsafe ( 65 % vs. 49 % ) . Opinions also vary by race and ethnicity ; blacks and Hispanics are more likely than whites to say that genetically modified foods are generally unsafe to eat .
Health care providers at hospitals and medical centers around the country are on the front line of care for those ill with the virus . As Americans take stock of early efforts to control the outbreak , 71 % are very or somewhat confident that hospitals and medical centers in their local area can handle patient needs .
For example , eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) Hispanics `` strongly agree '' that libraries are important because they promote literacy and a love of reading , a share similar to that of blacks ( 83 % ) , and somewhat higher than that of whites ( 76 % ) , who say the same . All three groups also strongly agree that public libraries play an important role in giving everyone a chance to succeed because they provide free access to materials and resources , though again the share is somewhat higher among Hispanics ( 75 % ) and blacks ( 77 % ) than it is among whites ( 70 % ) . And 71 % of Hispanics , 69 % of whites and 73 % of blacks strongly agree that public libraries improve the quality of life in a community .
Among 37 countries surveyed globally in 2017 , Trump received his lowest ratings on this question in Mexico , where 93 % said they have no confidence in the U.S. leader . His proposed wall on the U.S.-Mexico border was also particularly unpopular in the United States ' southern neighbor , where 94 % said they disapproved of the project . The border wall was similarly unpopular across the other six Latin American countries surveyed , with a regional median of 83 % saying they opposed it .
Many Germans see the U.S. as a top foreign policy partner ; fewer Americans feel the same way about Germany . When asked which countries are their most important partners in global affairs , Germans name France more than any other country , but the U.S. is in the second spot . More than four-in-ten Germans say the U.S. is either their country 's first or second most important partner . Americans are much less likely to see Germany this way : Only 12 % name Germany as one of America 's top two partners . Still , Germany does make the top four , trailing Great Britain and China and tying with Israel . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to see Germany as an important partner for foreign policy . While 21 % of Democrats name Germany as one of America 's top two international partners , only 5 % of Republicans feel this way . Democrats also take a more positive view of Germany 's role in world affairs – 52 % of Democrats say Germany does the right amount to help solve global problems , compared with 31 % of GOP supporters and 37 % of independents .
As of Nov. 23 , Trump had granted clemency 44 times , including 28 pardons and 16 commutations . That 's the lowest total of any president since at least William McKinley , who served at the turn of the 20th century . Obama , by comparison , granted clemency 1,927 times during his eight-year tenure , including 212 pardons and 1,715 commutations . The only modern president who granted clemency almost as infrequently as Trump is George H.W . Bush , who granted 77 pardons and commutations in his single term .
But on the contentious issue of the Keystone XL pipeline , which is under ongoing U.S. State Department review , there are differences within Canada as well as between Canadians and Americans . Almost half of Canadians ( 48 % ) oppose building the pipeline , while only 42 % favor it . In the U.S. , however , almost six-in-ten ( 59 % ) approve of the pipeline , according to a November 2014 Pew Research Center poll .
Despite the negative economic mood in Russia , President Putin still receives overwhelming support from the public . On foreign relations , eight-in-ten or more approve of his dealings with China , the U.S. , Ukraine and the European Union . In the domestic realm , overwhelming majorities support his energy policy ( 73 % ) and his handling of the economy ( 70 % ) . His lowest rating is for his handling of corruption , but even here , 62 % of the Russian public supports him .
More than twice as many Indians are dissatisfied as satisfied with the way things are going in the country ( 70 % vs. 29 % ) . And this discontent is shared by those who would like to see the Hindu-nationalist opposition Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP ) lead the next Indian government , those who prefer the current governing coalition led by the left-of-center Indian National Congress ( Congress ) party and those who favor some other party to lead .
Americans see cellphone use as OK in key public spaces , but not in more private or intimate gatherings . For instance , about three-quarters of Americans think it is generally acceptable for people to use their cellphones while walking down the street ( 77 % ) , on public transit ( 75 % ) or waiting in line ( 74 % ) . But only 38 % think it is generally OK to use cellphones at restaurants , and very few say cellphone use is OK at a family dinner ( 12 % ) , during a meeting ( 5 % ) or at church ( 4 % ) .
Democratic registered voters who are bothered the likely nominee is an older white man are slightly more likely than those who are not bothered by it to say they would vote for Biden in the November general election contest against Trump ( 89 % vs. 83 % ) . And they are especially likely to have a negative evaluation of the president : Nearly all in this group ( 97 % ) say they disapprove of the way Trump is handling his job in office , including nine-in-ten who strongly disapprove . Among Democratic voters who are not bothered the presumptive nominee is an older white man , 85 % disapprove , including 72 % who do so strongly .
Overall , 40 % of Hispanic adults think Trump will be a poor or terrible president while 28 % say he will be an average president and 22 % say he will be a good or great president . But there are sharp divides by political party . About half ( 53 % ) of Hispanic Republicans say Trump will be a good or great president . By comparison , Hispanic Democrats hold the opposite view : 58 % say Trump will be a poor or terrible president .4
Perhaps not surprisingly , considering the widening partisan divide across a variety of issues , Democrats and Republicans have sharply different views on this question . While eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say that whether someone is a man or a woman is determined by the sex they were assigned at birth , most Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 64 % ) take the opposite view and say a person 's gender can be different from the sex they were assigned at birth .
The answer , as one might expect , is complicated . Solar and wind power use has grown at a rapid rate over the past decade or so , but as of 2018 those sources accounted for less than 4 % of all the energy used in the U.S. ( That 's the most recent full year for which data is available . ) As far back as we have data , most of the energy used in the U.S. has come from coal , oil and natural gas . In 2018 , those `` fossil fuels '' fed about 80 % of the nation 's energy demand , down slightly from 84 % a decade earlier . Although coal use has declined in recent years , natural gas use has soared , while oil 's share of the nation 's energy tab has fluctuated between 35 % and 40 % . The total amount of energy used in the U.S. – everything from lighting and heating homes to cooking meals , fueling factories , driving cars and powering smartphones – hit 101.2 quadrillion Btu in 2018 , the highest level since data collection began in 1949 , according to the federal Energy Information Administration ( EIA ) .
President Obama visits Mexico on Wednesday for what has become known as the `` Three Amigos Summit '' with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto . It comes at a time when the U.S. public has a positive view of Canada , but more lukewarm feelings toward Mexico .
The small share of Americans – 7 % – who say they would definitely or probably not quarantine were then asked about possible reasons why they may not act on this advice . Some 44 % of this group say a major reason they would be unlikely to quarantine is that they just do n't think it would be necessary , while 35 % say the same about not being able to miss work .
At a time when the global population of people ages 65 and older is expected to triple to 1.5 billion by mid-century , public opinion on whether the growing number of older people is a problem varies dramatically around the world , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Concern peaks in East Asia , where nearly nine-in-ten Japanese , eight-in-ten South Koreans and seven-in-ten Chinese describe aging as a major problem for their country . Europeans also display a relatively high level of concern with aging , with more than half of the public in Germany and Spain saying that it is a major problem . Americans are among the least concerned , with only one-in-four expressing this opinion .
A median of 58 % of adults across 33 surveyed countries have a favorable opinion of the EU , while just 27 % hold an unfavorable view . In the 19 non-EU countries surveyed , attitudes are also positive , with a median of 51 % expressing a favorable view and 25 % reporting an unfavorable opinion ( though a significant proportion of respondents in some countries offer no opinion ) .
Job disruption during the COVID-19 shutdown is most common among adults younger than 50 . In an early April survey , 54 % of those ages 18 to 29 and 49 % of those 30 to 49 said they or someone in their household had experienced job or wage loss because of the coronavirus outbreak . This compares with 42 % of those ages 50 to 64 and a quarter of those 65 and older .
The belief that traditional ways are being lost is less prevalent among rural residents , older people , and lower socioeconomic groups . Instead , those who tend to be on the cutting edge of China 's rapidly modernizing society – the college educated ( 68 % ) , 18 - 29 year-olds ( 67 % ) , high income earners ( 67 % ) , and city dwellers ( 65 % ) – are the most likely to see traditional ways disappearing .
Technology use among foreign-born Latinos continues to lag significantly behind that of their U.S.-born counterparts , according to a new analysis of survey data from the Pew Hispanic Center . The nativity differences are especially pronounced when it comes to internet use . While 85 % of native-born Latinos ages 16 and older go online , only about half ( 51 % ) of foreign-born Latinos do so .1 When it comes to cell phones , 80 % of native-born Latinos use one , compared with 72 % of the foreign born .
The weakness in the financial recovery for Hispanics is mirrored by the experience of blacks . The median personal income of black workers is virtually unchanged since the start of the Great Recession , inching up to $ 33,600 in 2017 from $ 33,200 in 2007 . On the other hand , the financial recovery for whites and Asians has been stronger . The median income of white workers increased from $ 42,700 in 2007 to $ 45,500 in 2017 ( up 7 % ) and the median income of Asian workers increased from $ 44,800 to $ 50,000 ( up 12 % ) .
More than four-in-ten Catholic churchgoers say they have recently heard a sermon expressing opposition to abortion . In a survey conducted this summer , Pew Research Center asked U.S. adults who had recently attended religious services in person or watched online or on TV whether they had heard certain topics addressed in sermons . Among Catholics , 44 % had heard homilies that expressed opposition to abortion in the past month , while 12 % had heard homilies that expressed support for legal abortion . Among Protestants , 33 % had heard messages opposing abortion .
Democrats ' views are little changed over this period . In the January survey , 56 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say world problems would be worse without U.S. involvement . Younger Americans are more likely to say that U.S. involvement in the world usually makes problems worse compared with those 50 and older . Those under 30 are about evenly divided with 43 % saying that U.S. involvement usually makes problems worse , and 50 % saying that things would be even worse without U.S. involvement .
Among Germans , views of their country 's handling of the coronavirus outbreak are tied to confidence in Merkel . Those who say their country has done a good job dealing with the virus are much more likely than those who say it has done a bad job to have confidence in Merkel ( 87 % vs. 41 % , respectively ) . Germans are also very positive when rating their own country 's job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak : Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) say the country has done well . About two-thirds say both the European Union and World Health Organization have done a good job with the outbreak . However , views are not so positive toward the other two countries asked about in the survey : A majority say China has done a bad job , and 88 % say the same of how the U.S. has handled the outbreak .
The image of the U.S. has rebounded somewhat since the passage of Arizona 's controversial immigration bill in April 2010 , but it remains far more negative than it was prior to the law 's enactment . Currently , a slim majority ( 52 % ) of Mexicans hold a favorable view of the U.S. , while 41 % express a negative opinion . A year ago , 56 % had a favorable view of the U.S. , but those who were interviewed before Gov . Jan Brewer signed the Arizona measure into law on April 23 , 2010 , offered far more positive opinions than those interviewed following the law 's enactment ; 62 % of those interviewed April 14 - 20 , 2010 rated the U.S. favorably , compared with just 44 % of those interviewed May 1 - 6 , 2010 . In 2009 , nearly seven-in-ten Mexicans ( 69 % ) expressed a positive attitude toward the U.S .
Only , in neighboring Canada does a 53 % -majority describe Americans as rude . Interestingly , Americans themselves are more likely to assign that negative characteristic to their fellow countrymen ( 35 % do so ) than are the residents of Great Britain ( 29 % ) , the Netherlands ( 26 % ) and Poland ( 21 % ) . And a scant 12 % of Germans find Americans lacking in politeness .
These are some of the findings from a new pair of surveys conducted by the Pew Research Center in collaboration with the AAAS . The survey of the general public was conducted by landline and cellular telephone August 15 - 25 , 2014 with a representative sample of 2,002 adults nationwide . The margin of sampling error for results based on all adults is plus or minus 3.1 percentage points . The survey of scientists is based on a representative sample of 3,748 U.S.-based members of AAAS ; the survey was conducted online from Sept. 11 to Oct. 13 , 2014.2
As the two largest Spanish-language television networks in the U.S. , Univision and Telemundo are key providers of news for Spanish speakers . Univision 's average audience – measured as the average number of TVs tuned to a program throughout a period of time – declined for all three national time slots studied : a 12 % decline for the evening news time slot ( 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. ) , to an average audience of about 1 million ; a 14 % decline in late night news ( 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. ) ; and an 11 % decline for the morning news time slot ( 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. ) . Telemundo 's audience , on the other hand , increased by 7 % in the evening news time slot , to an audience of about 700 , ooo , and remained roughly steady at just under 400,000 for late night news .
But those favored descriptors shift markedly across the generations . While two-thirds of Mexican immigrants used `` Mexican , '' only 39 % of second-generation Mexicans and 32 % of third-generation Mexicans did so . Conversely , while just 3 % of Mexican immigrants called themselves American , 35 % of second-generation and 45 % of third-generation Mexicans did .
Prior to the recent surge , however , new case rates across the EU were much flatter than in the U.S. , and most people in eight EU countries thought their own country – and the bloc as a whole – had done a good job dealing with the pandemic , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted between June 10 and Aug. 3 , 2020 . Here 's a closer look at findings from the survey , as well as public health and economic data about how the EU has been faring during the pandemic . Most people in the surveyed countries approved of how the EU was handling COVID-19 . As of August , half or more in every country surveyed said the EU had done a good job handling the outbreak , including around two-thirds or more in Germany ( 68 % ) , Denmark ( 68 % ) , the Netherlands ( 66 % ) and Spain ( 65 % ) . Spaniards , in fact , were more approving of the EU 's response than of their own country 's ( 65 % vs. 54 % ) .
Meanwhile , the public continues to have largely negative views about the state of partisan divisions in the country . A majority of Americans ( 69 % ) say that divisions between Republicans and Democrats today are increasing , while just 8 % say they are decreasing and 23 % say they are staying the same .
A Pew Research Center survey conducted in August found that 46 % of U.S. adults say they have a family member or close friend who is addicted to drugs or has been in the past . Identical shares of men and women say this ( 46 % each ) , as do identical shares of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents when compared with Republicans and Republican leaners ( also 46 % each ) . There are no statistically significant differences between whites ( 46 % ) , Hispanics ( 50 % ) and blacks ( 52 % ) .
Hispanics had a gender gap in voting preference , with 73 % of Hispanic women and 63 % of Hispanic men backing the Democratic congressional candidates – a reflection of the election 's broad gender differences . In a pre-election Pew Research Center survey of Hispanics , differences by gender extended to views of the country . For example , Hispanic women were significantly more dissatisfied with the way things are going in the country today than Hispanic men . A gender gap also existed among white voters , with 49 % of white women backing the Democratic congressional candidate compared with 39 % of white men . By contrast , few gender differences existed among black voters , with about nine-in-ten black voters of both genders backing Democratic candidates .
Over the past four years , the demographic makeup of online classified users changed very little . The percentages of demographic groups using online classifieds grew at a rate that mirrors the growth of the total online population using these sites : the percentage of all internet users to utilize classified sites grew 27 percentage points from 2005 to 2009 , while most other demographic groups ' growth ranged from 25 to 29 percentage points . The exception to this pattern involves different generational use of classified sites . Online 18 - 29 year olds saw a 30 percentage-point increase in their use of online classified ads , and 30 - 49 year old internet users marked a 32 point increase in online classifieds use . On the other hand , internet users ages 50 - 64 saw a 21 point increase , and online seniors ( age 65+ ) saw the smallest increase overall : 13 percentage points .
In the vast majority of local TV newsrooms , budgets either grew or held steady in 2013 . About half of the news directors surveyed ( 52 % ) said they increased their news budgets last year , compared with 49 % the year before and 38 % in 2011 . But there were differences by market size . Indeed , 54 % of the mid-sized market stations ( 51 - 100 ) said they increased their budgets compared with 41 % whose budgets were cut or stayed the same . But in the biggest 25 TV markets , the percentage of stations increasing their budgets in 2013 ( 48 % ) was identical to the percentage that cut or did not increase their spending .
On the political front , Germany 's mainstream parties enjoy widespread support . A 58 % majority have a favorable opinion of Merkel 's center-right Christian Democratic Union ( CDU ) and a 68 % majority like the center-left Social Democratic Party ( SPD ) . This stands in stark contrast to France , Greece , Italy , Spain and the UK , where all political parties tend to be unpopular .
People traveling in families accounted for the majority of apprehensions in fiscal 2019 , a big shift from the recent past . There were 473,682 apprehensions of `` family units '' ( defined as the number of individuals traveling in a family ) , representing 56 % of apprehensions overall and more than four times the next-highest annual total of family member apprehensions on record ( 107,212 in fiscal 2018 ) . Apprehensions of unaccompanied children ages 17 and younger also reached their highest level on record ( 76,020 in fiscal 2019 , compared with a previous high of 68,541 in fiscal 2014 ) . In all other recent years , apprehensions of individual adults far outnumbered those of family members or unaccompanied children .
Independents stand out from partisans in several important ways . They are less politically engaged than Republicans or Democrats – and this is especially the case among independents who do not lean to a party . In a survey conducted last fall , shortly after the midterm elections , partisan leaners were less likely than partisans to say they registered to vote and voted in the congressional elections . About half of Democratic-leaning independents ( 48 % ) said they voted , compared with 59 % of Democrats . The differences were comparable between GOP leaners ( 54 % said they voted ) and Republicans ( 61 % ) .
While cuts to the government may have been unpopular , the public was not necessarily looking directly to Washington for answers on the economy either . The public started the decade and the recession in no mood for government regulation . In a September 1981 Gallup survey , fully 59 % said they opposed greater government intervention into business , siding with the argument that regulation impairs the workings of the free market system . Just 24 % favored greater government intervention to protect individuals from economic abuses . A 1981 CBS/New York Times poll found that two-thirds of Americans completely or mostly agreed that the government had gone too far in regulating business and interfering with the free enterprise system .
The current controversy is bringing international attention to the role of women in Saudi society , but more broadly the kingdom has a poor reputation globally for how it treats its citizens . In a spring 2013 survey , a median of only 18 % across 39 countries said that the government of Saudi Arabia respects the personal freedoms of its people . This compares with a median of 70 % who say the U.S. respects human rights , and 36 % who believe the same about China . Saudi Arabia does score higher in this regard than Iran , but few publics have a high opinion about either government 's treatment of their own people .
The public 's views of immigrants ' impact on the U.S. vary across different aspects of American life . Views are most negative about the economy and crime : Half of U.S. adults say immigrants are making things worse in those areas . On the economy , 28 % say immigrants are making things better , while 20 % say they are not having much of an effect . On crime , by contrast , just 7 % say immigrants are making things better , while 41 % generally see no positive or negative impact of immigrants in the U.S. on crime . On other aspects of U.S. life , Americans are more likely to hold neutral views of the impact of immigrants . Some 45 % say immigrants are not having much effect on social and moral values , and 56 % say they are not having much effect on science and technology . But when it comes to food , music and the arts , about half ( 49 % ) of adults say immigrants are making things better .
Currently , 45 Fortune 1000 companies have women as their chief executives . There will be 46 women CEOs in that elite group as of January , when Barra takes the reins at GM , Jacqueline Hinman becomes CEO of engineering giant CH2M Hill and Linda Lang is scheduled to step down as chief of Jack in the Box . That would represent an all-time high , according to data compiled by nonprofit research firm Catalyst . A decade ago , only 16 companies on Fortune 's list had women CEOs . Still , that 's less than 5 % of the top jobs at America 's top corporations .
While most voters express at least some confidence in these four aspects of the presidential election , relatively small shares are very confident of each . For example , only about four-in-ten say they are very confident that people who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot in the election , while only 22 % say they are very confident that once the votes are counted it will be clear who won the election .
Our February-March 2007 survey shows this phenomenon proceeding apace . As the table below indicates , 65 % of home broadband users go online from home at least once per day to use the internet or check email , compared with 40 % for dialup users .
A majority of voters ( 58 % ) who currently plan to support either Trump or Clinton say they do n't mind if people know who they support but that they do n't go out of their way to say it . A third say that they are `` pretty outspoken '' with others about their support , while far fewer ( 7 % ) say that they would rather other people not know that they support one of these candidates . There are no significant differences between Clinton and Trump voters on their willingness to share who they support . Majorities of both groups ( 60 % of Clinton supporters and 57 % of Trump supporters ) do n't mind if others know but do n't go out of their way to say so .
An estimated 738,000 Hispanics of Ecuadorian origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Ecuadorians in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Ecuadorian origin ; this includes immigrants from Ecuador and those who trace their family ancestry to Ecuador . Ecuadorians are the 10th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 1 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Ecuadorian-origin population has increased 174 % , growing from 270,000 to 738,000 over the period . At the same time , the Ecuadorian foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 109 % , from 205,000 in 2000 to 427,000 in 2017 . By comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 36.6 million , or 62 % , of the Hispanic population in 2017 .
When asked if certain traits apply to elected officials – as well as to business leaders and the typical American – most people do say the term `` intelligent '' describes elected officials very or fairly well ( 67 % ) . However , just as many view the `` typical American '' as intelligent . Somewhat more ( 83 % ) say the term describes business leaders well . And elected officials receive very low marks for honesty . Just 29 % say the term `` honest '' describes elected officials . That compares with 45 % who say business leaders are honest and 69 % who say the same about typical Americans . A large majority of the public ( 72 % ) also views elected officials as `` selfish '' – but that criticism is not unique to politicians . Comparable percentages also say the term applies to typical Americans ( 68 % ) and business leaders ( 67 % ) .
A new Pew Research Center survey conducted in early April finds that roughly half of U.S. adults ( 53 % ) say the internet has been essential for them personally during the pandemic and another 34 % describe it as `` important , but not essential . '' The new national survey of 4,917 U.S. adults conducted April 7 to 12 using the Center 's American Trends Panel explores public attitudes about the role of government in addressing these issues and finds that a majority of Americans ( 62 % ) do not think it is the federal government 's responsibility to ensure that all Americans have a high-speed internet connection at home during the COVID-19 outbreak . And a similar share ( 65 % ) do not think the federal government should be responsible for ensuring cellphone services to all .
Looking at specific occupations , an estimated 63 % of `` miscellaneous personal appearance workers '' ( a category that includes manicurists and pedicurists , makeup artists , shampooers and skin care specialists ) are immigrants , the highest share of any occupation . Immigrants account for about 60 % of graders and sorters of agricultural products as well as plasterers and stucco masons , 55 % of sewing machine operators , and about half of maids and housekeepers , tailors and dressmakers , and miscellaneous agricultural workers .
And Americans overall do n't think Trump is particularly religious : A majority say Trump is `` not too '' ( 23 % ) or `` not at all '' ( 40 % ) religious , while 28 % say he 's `` somewhat '' religious and only 7 % say he 's `` very religious , '' according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
The new Republican-led Congress is drawing harsh reviews from the public – including most Republicans . Just 23 % of Americans say congressional Republicans are keeping the promises they made during last fall 's campaign , while 65 % say they are not . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say the new Congress has accomplished less than they expected , while 4 % say it has accomplished more than expected . About half ( 53 % ) say its accomplishments are in line with what they expected .
About one-in-four mothers are raising their children on their own . While most U.S. mothers are married ( 68 % ) , nearly one-quarter ( 24 % ) are solo moms . All told , about 9 million mothers are living with a child younger than 18 without a spouse or partner . Solo motherhood is particularly common among black mothers ( 56 % are in this category ) . By comparison , 26 % of Hispanic moms , 17 % of white moms and 9 % of Asian moms are solo parents . ( Solo parenthood is far less common among fathers : 7 % of dads are raising a child without a spouse or partner in the home . )
Large-scale protests and rallies for racial equality have captured public attention and amplified calls for policy reforms in recent weeks . Some 6 % of U.S. adults say they have attended a protest or rally that focused on issues related to race or racial equality in the last month , and those who have are more likely to be nonwhite and younger than Americans overall , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey . They are also more likely to live in an urban area and to identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) of those who say they recently attended a protest focused on race are younger than 30 ; among all U.S. adults , 19 % are in this age group . In turn , those ages 50 and older are underrepresented among the protesters , while those ages 30 to 49 represent a similar share of those who have attended a protest as they do of the adult population overall . City dwellers , who represent 28 % of the adults surveyed , make up 41 % of those who say they have protested within the past month . Some 42 % of people who participated in last month 's protests live in the suburbs ( compared with 47 % of all adults ) , and those who live in rural areas account for 17 % of recent protesters , compared with 25 % of the survey sample .
In the current survey , a larger majority of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 75 % ) than Republicans and Republican leaners ( 67 % ) say cyberattacks from other countries are a major threat to the U.S . In April 2016 , partisan views were the reverse : 78 % of Republicans viewed cyberattacks as a major threat compared with 68 % of Democrats .
Opinion is evenly divided over the effect of banks and financial institutions on the way things are going in the country ( 39 % say they have a positive effect , while the same share views their effect negatively ) . On balance , more Americans say large corporations and the news media have a negative effect on the way things are going than say these institutions have a positive impact .
As noted in October , there has been an increase in the share of Americans expressing consistently liberal or mostly liberal views , while the share holding a mix of liberal and conservative views has declined .
Democrats and Republicans have starkly different opinions . Around three-quarters of Democrats ( 76 % ) said in the summer survey that the justices should base their rulings on their understanding of what the Constitution means in current times , while two-thirds of Republicans ( 67 % ) said the high court should decide cases based on the Constitution 's original meaning .
Twitter users are also more likely to use their cell phones to connect to the internet ; fully two in five ( 40 % ) Twitterers with cell phones use the device to connect to the internet , while one quarter ( 24 % ) of those who go online but do not use Twitter do the same .12 Along with communicating extensively via untethered mobile devices , Twitter users are more likely to consume news and information on these devices as well .13 For many Twitter users , learning about and sharing relevant and recent nuggets of information is a primary utility of the service . While Twitter users are just as likely as others to consume news on any given day , they are more likely to consume it on mobile devices and less likely to engage with news via more traditional outlets . Twitterers are less likely to read a printed copy of a newspaper , but more likely to read a newspaper online ( 76 % vs. 60 % of non-Twitter users ) , and more likely to read a news story on a cell phone ( 14 % vs. 6 % ) or on a smart phone ( 17 % vs. 7 % ) . A similar pattern holds for video news consumption ; on any given day , Twitter users are just as likely as others to watch news on a TV , and just as likely to watch video news on a computer , but more likely to watch a news video on a cell phone ( 6 % vs. 1 % ) or on a smart phone ( 8 % vs. 1 % ) .
Putin , Xi and especially Trump are unpopular globally . More than 30 world leaders are expected to attend the summit . Of the five leaders evaluated in the spring survey – all of whom are scheduled to appear – President Donald Trump receives the lowest ratings . A median of 70 % across 25 countries say they do not have confidence in the U.S. leader to do the right thing regarding world affairs . Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping also receive negative reviews – a median of 62 % lack confidence in Putin while 56 % say this about Xi . German Chancellor Angela Merkel receives the highest rating : A median of 52 % are confident in her ability to handle world affairs , while 46 % are confident in French President Emmanuel Macron .
Women 's views about how well mothers are doing their job have changed little over the past 10 years . In a 1997 Pew Research Center survey of women , a majority ( 56 % ) said that mothers of children under age 18 were doing a worse job as parents than mothers did 20 or 30 years ago ; in the current survey , 54 % of women express this view .
From the onset of the Great Recession in 2007 through 2014 , the U.S. Hispanic population had an annual average growth rate of 2.8 % , compared with an average 4.4 % growth each year from 2000 to 2007 . As a result , in terms of growth rate , Hispanics – once the nation 's fastest-growing population – have now slipped behind Asians , whose population grew at an average annual rate of 3.4 % between 2007 and 2014 .
Overall , 46 % of whites favor building a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico , while a similar share ( 52 % ) say they are opposed . By contrast , large majorities of blacks ( 86 % ) and Hispanics ( 83 % ) say they oppose building the wall . Opposition to the wall is widespread among young adults younger than 30 . By 78 % to 20 % , more adults under 30 oppose than favor a wall . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those ages 30 - 49 also oppose a wall . Views among those ages 50 and older are more divided , with opposition narrowly outweighing support for a border wall .
Changes in unemployment during the recession reveal a rapidly worsening situation for foreign-born Hispanics , native-born Hispanics and blacks in the labor market . The unemployment rates for these groups increased by similar amounts from the fourth quarter of 2007 to the fourth quarter of 2008 . However , the number of unemployed persons increased at a much faster rate for foreign-born Hispanics . The U.S. economy employed 2 million fewer persons in the fourth quarter of 2008 than it employed in the fourth quarter of 2007 . Among major racial and ethnic groups , only native-born Hispanics added jobs in the past year . But this was principally a function of demographics . The native-born Latino labor force is increasing more rapidly than the labor force for any other group—4.8 % compared with only 0.7 % growth in the U.S. labor force . Thus , as workers retire or leave employment for other reasons , they are increasingly likely to be replaced by native-born Hispanics .
The generation of Central and Eastern Europeans who came of age after the fall of the Berlin Wall and collapse of the Soviet Union differs little in its political outlook from earlier generations weaned on communist ideology and anti-Western propaganda . Today , support for democracy is relatively tepid among both age groups . Majorities in most countries across the region are upbeat about free markets , with similar levels of support among young and old , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of adults in 18 Central and Eastern European countries .
Climate change and ISIS are India 's top international concerns . Here , Indians are in agreement with Europeans , who also rank these two issues as the greatest threats to their countries . There have been no major ISIS-led attacks in India , but the terrorist organization has made threats against the country . Reflecting Indians ' positive views of the U.S. , American power and influence was viewed as the least threatening of the international issues tested . Similarly , few Indians view tensions with Russia as a cause for concern , but a much larger share sees China as threatening to their country .
Roughly half the public ( 52 % ) approves of his handling of the economy , while 39 % disapprove . Nearly three-quarters ( 74 % ) give a positive grade to Abe 's handling of relations with the United States . And more than half ( 54 % ) back his dealings with South Korea , while about a third ( 34 % ) disapprove . The public is less supportive of Abe 's handling of relations with China ( 46 % approve , 40 % disapprove ) .
The rising price of gasoline replaced the Iraq war last week as the public 's most closely followed news story . More than half of the public ( 52 % ) paid very close attention to news about gas prices , and 27 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . By comparison , 33 % followed the situation in Iraq very closely , and 23 % listed Iraq as their top news story of the week . Historically , rising gas prices have attracted broad public interest . A year ago , even more Americans ( 69 % ) followed news about gas prices very closely . This past week , interest in gas prices outstripped media coverage of the issue by a wide margin . The national news media devoted 4 % of its coverage to gasoline prices , making it the sixth most heavily covered news story of the week .
Nearly four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) say that if Kavanaugh is confirmed by the Senate to sit on the Supreme Court he would overturn the court 's Roe v. Wade decision guaranteeing the right to abortion . Fewer ( 29 % ) say Kavanaugh would not vote to overturn Roe , while 32 % do not express an opinion or say it would not matter . In contrast , Republicans are divided : 39 % say Kavanaugh would not vote to overturn Roe , while 27 % say he would do this ; 34 % offer no response . There are no significant ideological differences among Republicans in these views .
Overall , the largest segment ( 44 % ) of cell-owning adults makes 1 to 5 calls on a typical day . Only 5 % of adults say they do not make or receive any calls on their cell phone on an average day .
Publics in the Middle East tend to see Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan more positively than other Middle Eastern leaders . Yet , views of the Turkish president vary drastically across the region . Fewer than half in Lebanon and only 15 % in Israel express a positive opinion of Erdogan . Israeli Jews ( 4 % ) and Lebanese Shia Muslims ( 7 % ) hold particularly negative views .
Today 's parents take a wide range of actions to monitor and police their teen 's online behavior . Nearly six-in-ten parents say they often or sometimes check which websites their teen visits or look through their child 's cellphone call logs or messages ( 58 % of parents say they do each of these things ) . A somewhat smaller share of parents ( 52 % ) say they at least sometimes use parental controls to restrict which sites their teen can access .
Among respondents in the March 2011 Pew Research Center survey who say they took out college loans and are no longer in school , about half ( 48 % ) report that paying back the loan has made it harder to make ends meet ; 25 % say it has made it harder to buy a home ; 24 % say it has had an impact on the kind of career they are pursuing ; and 7 % say it has delayed their getting married or starting a family .
A 2016 report from the National Academies of Sciences , Engineering and Medicine highlighted consensus among scientific experts that GM foods were safe . Most Americans perceive considerable disagreement in the scientific community , however . Only a minority of Americans says that almost all ( 14 % ) or more than half ( 28 % ) of scientists agree that GM foods are safe to eat . Public trust in information about the health risks and benefits of GM foods from scientists is higher than it is for several other groups : food industry leaders , the news media and elected officials . But only a minority of the public ( 35 % ) says they trust scientists a lot to give full and accurate information about the health effects of GM foods , while 43 % trust scientists `` some . '' Trust in information from small farm owners is similar , with 29 % saying they trust small farm owners a lot and 49 % saying they trust small farm owners some to give full and accurate information on the health effects of GM foods .
Americans ' observations about mask-wearing behavior in the areas where they live vary by the severity of COVID-19 health impacts in the community . About six-in-ten adults ( 62 % ) who live in counties with the highest COVID-19 death rates say that all or most people in their communities are wearing masks , compared with 33 % of those who live in areas that have the lowest number of coronavirus deaths per capita .
In our survey , LGBT adults said pride events are important to making society more accepting , but not as important as some other things , such as people knowing someone who is LGBT and well known public figures who are LGBT or who support LGBT rights . Still , about three-quarters of LGBT adults think LGBT pride events help make society at least a little more accepting of the LGBT population , with about three-in-ten LGBT adults ( 28 % ) saying LGBT pride events help `` a lot '' with social acceptance and about five-in-ten ( 48 % ) saying these events help `` a little . '' Within the LGBT community , views on the importance of LGBT pride events vary . While about three-in-ten gay men , lesbians and bisexual women think these events help advance social acceptance of LGBT Americans `` a lot , '' only 12 % of bisexual men say the same .
Yet there are key differences within the two parties as well . Among Republicans , 71 % of conservative Republicans oppose allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , more than twice the share of GOP moderates and liberals ( 34 % ) . A 55 % majority of moderate and liberal Republicans favor allowing same-sex marriage . Within the GOP , these ideological differences also are notable across voters ' primary preferences for the party 's 2016 presidential nominee . About half ( 52 % ) of GOP voters who back Donald Trump ( now the party 's presumptive nominee ) say they oppose same-sex marriage , compared with 70 % who preferred Ted Cruz and just 37 % who backed John Kasich .
For most Americans , exposure to different content and ideas on social media has not caused them to change their opinions . But a small share of the public – 14 % – say they have changed their views about a political or social issue in the past year because of something they saw on social media , according to a Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted May 29-June 11 . Certain groups , particularly young men , are more likely than others to say they 've modified their views because of social media . Around three-in-ten men ages 18 to 29 ( 29 % ) say their views on a political or social issue changed in the past year due to social media . This is roughly twice the share saying this among all Americans and more than double the shares among men and women ages 30 and older ( 12 % and 11 % , respectively ) . There are also differences by race and ethnicity , according to the new survey . Around one-in-five black ( 19 % ) and Hispanic ( 22 % ) Americans say their views changed due to social media , compared with 11 % of whites .
Only about a quarter of Brazilians believe that political instability will get better . While the impact of the recent charge against the president and other ongoing investigations remains to be seen , 86 % of Brazilians say political instability is a big problem for their country . Moreover , the public is skeptical that the current state of affairs in Brasília , the capital , will change for the better anytime soon . About four-in-ten Brazilians ( 42 % ) believe the political instability will get worse in the next five years , 29 % say the problem will stay the same and roughly a quarter ( 24 % ) believe the instability will get better .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 5 - 9 among 1,503 adults finds that by two-to-one ( 60 % to 27 % ) Americans see China 's economic strength as a greater threat than its military strength . And as Obama goes into talks with the Chinese president , a 53 % -majority say it is very important for the U.S. to get tougher with China on trade and economic issues . Yet while Americans may see China as a problem , relatively few describe it as an adversary , and a 58 % -majority say it is very important to build a stronger relationship between the U.S. and China . By comparison , promoting human rights and better environmental policies and practices are important , but lower priorities .
Urban and rural Americans have widely different views on some social and political issues , but differences can shrink when accounting for partisanship . People in urban areas are far more likely than those in rural communities to say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , that the government should do more to solve problems , that the economic system unfairly favors powerful interests and that whites benefit from advantages in society that black people do not have – but these differences shrink when accounting for partisanship . ( A 62 % majority of urban adults are Democrats or lean Democratic , while 54 % in rural areas identify with or lean toward the Republican Party . ) Majorities in urban and rural areas feel misunderstood by those living in different types of communities . About two-thirds or more in rural and urban areas ( 70 % and 65 % , respectively ) say people who do n't live in their same type of community do n't understand the types of problems faced by those who do . The share of suburbanites who say this is lower ( 52 % ) .
A notable parallel between anti-Muslim and anti-Jewish opinion in Western Europe is that both sentiments are most prevalent among the same groups of people . Older people and those with less education are more anti-Semitic and anti-Muslim than are younger people or those with more education . Looking at combined data from France , Germany and Spain – the three Western European countries where unfavorable opinions of Jews are most common – people ages 50 and older express more negative views of both Jews and Muslims than do those younger than 50 . Similarly , Europeans who have not attended college are consistently more likely than those who have to hold unfavorable opinions of both groups . There are some political parallels too . Anti-Muslim and anti-Jewish opinions are most prevalent among Europeans on the political right . For example , among respondents from France , Germany and Spain who place themselves on the political right , 56 % express a negative view of Muslims , compared with 42 % of those on the left and 45 % of those in the center . Similarly , 34 % of people on the political right have a negative opinion of Jews , compared with 28 % of those on the left and 26 % of centrists .
