In the News Interest Index survey conducted Dec. 16-19, Americans say the two stories they followed most closely last week were the final approval of major tax legislation in Washington and the cold winter weather that struck many parts of the country.
Late last week, Congress passed and President Obama signed legislation that includes a temporary extension of Bush-era tax cuts, aid to the unemployed and several other tax measures intended to boost the U.S. economy. About two-in-ten (22%) say they followed this news more closely than any other top story; 37% say they followed news about the tax deal very closely. Two-in-ten (20%) say they followed news about cold winter weather most closely, while 43% say they followed this news very closely.
About four-in-ten (39%) say they paid very close attention to news about the economy; 14% say they followed economic news more closely than any other topic.
The media also focused on the economy and the tax legislation last week. The finale of the debate over tax cuts made up 17% of the newshole, according to the Pew Research Center’s Project for Excellence in Journalism. More general economic news accounted for an additional 9% of coverage. News about harsh winter weather conditions made up 3% of the newshole.
Nearly three-in-ten (28%) say they very closely followed reports about a federal judge in Virginia ruling that parts of the new health care law are unconstitutional, including a provision mandating all Americans carry health insurance. About one-in-ten (9%) say this was the news they followed most closely. Far more Republicans (42%) than Democrats or independents (24% each) followed this story very closely.
The situation in Iraq was followed very closely by 19% of the public and a similar number (17%) say they very closely followed news about the administration’s review of its Afghan war strategy. The situation in Afghanistan and the review of the war’s progress accounted for 5% of the newshole, while Iraq made up 1% of coverage.