Around the globe, people are anxiously following the U.S. financial crisis as it evolves into a worldwide meltdown. People nearly everywhere realize that what happens in the American economy can have a big impact on them. But even before this fall’s financial crisis, a 24-nation Pew Global Attitudes survey conducted in March-April 20081 found that many in other countries already felt the U.S. economy was having a negative impact on their own country’s economy. The survey also found that publics around the world were giving their national economies increasingly negative ratings. With the U.S. receiving at least some of the blame for the world’s increasingly dour economic outlook, this adds yet another challenge for America’s global image.
In recent weeks, many countries have had tangible reason to deplore America’s economic influence. But publics worldwide were already well aware that U.S. economic conditions have an impact on their own economies. Most — including the United States itself — viewed that influence in a negative light. In spring of 2008, majorities in 21 of 23 countries surveyed outside of the U.S. said that what happens in the American economy affects economic conditions in their own country. More than 80% took this view in nine countries: Japan, South Korea, Australia, Britain, Germany, Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan and France.
Interestingly, the only two countries in which less than a majority said the U.S. has a significant impact were China and Pakistan. Slightly less than half in China (46%) held this view, as did just 41% of Pakistanis (35% of Pakistanis do not offer an opinion).
In regions throughout the world, people who believe the U.S. economy influences their own economy tend to say it is a negative rather than a positive influence. Majorities or pluralities in 14 of the 23 non-U.S. publics surveyed considered U.S. economic influence to be negative. Seventy percent or more of those polled expressed this view in Britain (72%), Germany (72%), Australia (71%), Turkey (70%) and France (70%).