Two foreign policy stories topped campaign news last week in terms of public interest. Roughly three-in-ten Americans (31%) paid very close attention to the release of 15 British sailors and marines held captive by the Iranian government, and 21% said this was the story they followed most closely. The hostage story was no. 1 in terms of coverage: 12% of the newshole was devoted to this story. One third of the public paid very close attention to the situation in Iraq and 20% said this was the story they followed most closely.
While media coverage of the Iraq war remains focused more heavily on the policy debate, the public expresses more interest in events on the ground in Iraq. Coverage of the policy debate outweighed news about the war itself by a better than two-to-one margin this past week. At the same time, the public was more than twice as likely to list the situation in Iraq, rather than the policy debate at home, as their top news story.
News coverage of the firing of eight U.S. attorneys fell off dramatically last week, while public interest in the story remained fairly constant. The week of March 26, 11% of the newshole was devoted to the U.S. attorney firings – making it one of the top two most covered stories of that week. This past week, only 1% of the news coverage was devoted to this story. Roughly one-in-five Americans paid very close attention to this story last week and 6% said it was the story they followed most closely.
Global warming was back in the news last week – with a Supreme Court ruling on auto emissions and a new report on the causes of global climate change. Five percent of the news for the week was devoted to this topic. Roughly one quarter of the public (26%) followed news about global warming very closely. The same percentage paid very close attention to global warming news in early February of this year following the worldwide conference on the issue in Paris. Public interest in this topic is substantially higher now than it was ten years ago. In late 1997, only about 10% of the public was following news about global warming very closely.