Overall, 19% of the public paid very close attention to news about the fired U.S. attorneys and 8% said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other. The news media devoted 16% of its coverage overall to the firings – an eight-fold increase over the week of March 5 – making it the most covered story of the week. Public interest increased as well though at a lower rate. Democrats followed the U.S. attorneys story more closely than Republicans (23% vs. 15%, respectively, followed it very closely).This story did generate more public interest than the recent verdict in the Scooter Libby trial – one of last week’s most covered news stories. Only 13% followed that story very closely.
While the news media focused on how Gonzales and the White House were connected to the U.S. attorney firings, the public remained intensely focused on the Iraq War. Fully 34% said they followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely and 23% listed Iraq as the story they followed most closely last week. Nearly as many (31%) followed news about conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and more general stories about problems with medical care for wounded soldiers returning from Iraq. Some 17% said this was the story they followed most closely. Coverage of this story fell off somewhat from the previous week— 4% of coverage in all media sectors was devoted to this story last week vs. 6% the week of March 5.
In other top stories this week, the steady stream of news about the 2008 presidential campaign continued. Nine percent of news coverage in all sectors was devoted to this topic. For the past two months, media coverage of the campaign has focused largely on the two leading Democratic candidates, Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. That fact has not been lost on the public, as these two campaigns are at the forefront of the public’s mind. When asked to name the candidate they’ve heard the most about in the news lately, 37% named Clinton and another 24% named Barack Obama. Mentions of all other candidates were in single digits: 3% or fewer named John McCain, Rudy Giuliani, Mitt Romney and John Edwards.
Recent news about the stock market attracted a modest audience – 18% of the public followed this story very closely while 8% said it was the story they followed most closely. Two weeks earlier, when stocks took a dramatic tumble, the public was following the market somewhat more closely. Stock market happenings drew in a distinct audience – Republicans and men were among the most likely to pay close attention to this story. In addition, the income gap on this story is substantial. Fully 57% of those with annual household incomes of $75,000 or higher followed news about the stock market very or fairly closely. This compares with 40% of those making between $50,000 and $75,000, and fewer than 30% of those making less than $50,000 a year.