There is considerable dissatisfaction with the way democracy is working in many countries. Across the nations polled, a median of 52% are dissatisfied with how their democracy is working, while 44% are satisfied. Greeks, Bulgarians and Nigerians register the highest levels of dissatisfaction. In general, people with lower incomes and those who do not support the ruling party are more likely to be dissatisfied with the functioning of democracy. Further, in many European countries, supporters of right-wing populist political parties are especially likely to hold this view. Supporters of Poland’s Law and Justice Party and Hungary’s Fidesz Party – two governing populist parties – show the opposite pattern.
One way in which people are unhappy with the way democracy works is that they see political elites as out of touch. Across the nations surveyed, a median of 64% disagree with the statement “Most elected officials care what people like me think.” This opinion is particularly widespread in Europe – a median of 69% express this view. Further, 71% share this view in the U.S. In contrast, fewer say this in the three Asian emerging economies included in the study: India (31%), the Philippines (29%) and Indonesia (18%).
When asked whether the state is run for benefit of all the people, global publics are almost evenly divided: A median of 49% say yes, while 50% say no. But there are large differences across countries. For instance, 88% in Slovakia believe the state is run for the benefit of all, but just 19% hold this view in Greece. Overall, the share of the public saying the state is run to benefit everyone in society has declined in many nations since the Pew Research Center asked the question in 2002. Three nations – Japan, the Czech Republic and Slovakia – have seen an increase in the share who say the state is run for the benefit of all since 2002.
Despite the frustration many people feel about political leaders and the way their political systems are working, they have not given up on democracy, and most still believe they can have a voice in the process. A median of 67% agree that voting gives ordinary people some say about how the government runs things.