Blacks are far more likely to view revamping the criminal justice system as a key goal than are whites and Hispanics . Nearly three-quarters of blacks ( 73 % ) say this should be a top priority , compared with 48 % of Hispanics and just 39 % of whites .
The higher levels of caution that Black and Hispanic adults have with respect to COVID-19 also are apparent when it comes to opinions about how – or if – houses of worship should be operating right now . Black and Hispanic attenders are far more likely than white attenders to say that their own congregation should be closed for in-person services : About four-in-ten Black ( 42 % ) and Hispanic attenders ( 37 % ) say this , compared with 21 % of white attenders . It is not that most white attenders think their congregations should be open without restrictions ; just 15 % say their houses of worship should currently be open to the public as normal , just as they were before the pandemic . But among white attenders , a majority ( 63 % ) think their congregation should be open for in-person religious services with modifications in place due to the coronavirus outbreak – such as social distancing , mask requirements or limited attendance . Fewer Black ( 44 % ) and Hispanic ( 51 % ) attenders say this is the right option for their congregations . Opinions about what houses of worship should be doing during the coronavirus outbreak seem to reflect what respondents ' congregations actually are doing . White worshippers are much more likely than their Black and Hispanic counterparts to report that their congregations are holding in-person services with precautions in place . Roughly two-thirds of white attenders ( 65 % ) say their congregation is open in this way , compared with fewer Black ( 37 % ) and Hispanic ( 41 % ) worshippers . Meanwhile , about four-in-ten Black and Hispanic attenders say the congregation they attend most often is currently closed for in-person worship , compared with one-quarter of white attenders who say this .
Eurostat , the European statistical agency , announced today that the European Union 's annual inflation rate in April was 1.4 % , down from a rate of 2.7 % in April 2012 . Nonetheless , across eight EU nations surveyed by the Pew Research Center in March 2013 , a median of 67 % said rising prices were a `` very '' big problem in their countries . As the European Central Bank contemplates interest rate cuts to stimulate economic growth in a euro area now in recession , such public worry about inflation only complicates their task .
The new survey by Pew Research Center , conducted July 22-August 4 among 4,175 adults , also finds little support for overturning Roe v. Wade , the landmark Supreme Court decision that established a woman 's right to an abortion . Seven-in-ten say they do not want to see the Roe v. Wade decision completely overturned ; 28 % say they would like to see the Supreme Court completely overturn the 1973 decision .
Wire services like the Associated Press account for the major share of federal government coverage in local newspapers . Regardless of whether a local newspaper has its own D.C. correspondent , wire service coverage carries much of the weight when it comes to informing readers about the federal government . Among the four papers with a D.C. correspondent , fully 52 % of stories about the federal government came from wire services , compared with 8 % that came from the D.C. correspondents . Among four papers studied without their own D.C. correspondent , reliance on wire coverage was even more pronounced – accounting for fully 62 % of all federal government news .
The new survey also finds that as some states have legalized marijuana – placing them at odds with the federal prohibition against marijuana – a majority of Americans ( 59 % ) say that the federal government should not enforce laws in states that allow marijuana use ; 37 % say that they should enforce these laws . Views on federal enforcement of marijuana laws are unchanged since the question was first asked two years ago .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
Americans are far more likely to say there are strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans in U.S. society today than to say the same thing about blacks and whites , the rich and the poor , and other social groups . An overwhelming majority ( 86 % ) of Americans say conflicts between Democrats and Republicans are either strong or very strong , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . By comparison , 65 % of Americans see strong or very strong conflicts between blacks and whites , and 60 % see them between the rich and the poor . The share of Americans who say there are very strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans ( 64 % ) is more than twice as large as the share who see very strong conflicts between blacks and whites ( 27 % ) , and between the rich and the poor ( 29 % ) . Americans are considerably less likely to see strong conflicts between two other sets of people : those who live in cities and those who live in rural areas , and those who are young and those who are older . Among U.S. adults , 37 % see strong or very strong conflicts between people in cities and people in rural areas ; a similar share ( 35 % ) see strong or very strong conflicts between young and older people . Most Americans either do n't see conflicts between these two groups of people or say the conflicts are not very strong .
News about proposed health care legislation was the most closely followed story of last week , just as it had been the prior week . More than a third ( 36 % ) say they followed news about the debate more closely than any other major story . And when people are asked what news story they are talking about with friends , the most frequent response is health care ( also 36 % ) , far outpacing mentions of other stories , including the economy . For the second week in a row , the media gave more coverage to the health care debate than any other story . An analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) found that the issue accounted for 19 % of the newshole examined – down slightly from 25 % the week before – with significant coverage focused on the politics of the debate as Congress approached its August recess without a vote in either chamber .
Five years ago today , on November 4 , 2008 , Barack Obama won the presidency and became our first African American president . The historic moment may not have come as a surprise to many . Twenty years ago , about half of Americans ( 54 % ) thought the chances were good that we would have a black president by now , according to a 1993 Gallup/CNN/USA Today survey of U.S. adults , while 45 % thought the chances were slim . In 1993 , one-in-ten adults thought that the chances were `` excellent '' that we would elect a black American as president , 44 % thought the chances were `` good , '' 24 % thought they were `` not good '' and 21 % thought they were `` poor . ''
Not surprisingly , economic inequality is a common concern for publics around the world , according to a Pew Research Center survey of 39 nations . Most people agree that the economic system favors the wealthy . Majorities in most countries say the gap between the rich and the poor has increased in the past five years . This attitude is particularly prevalent among those who live in advanced economies . And at least half the publics in most countries say the wealth gap is a very big problem in their nation , with developing economies expressing especially high levels of anxiety .
Student involvement in extracurricular activities often differs by family income . Seven-in-ten parents of school-age children say their children return home after school , while 18 % say their school-age children participate in after-school activities and 8 % say they use an after-care program , according to a fall 2015 survey of parents with children younger than 18 . About one-third of parents ( 32 % ) with annual family incomes of $ 75,000 or higher report that their children participate in after-school activities or go to an after-care program , compared with 17 % of those with incomes below $ 30,000 . For some parents – including about half ( 52 % ) of those with family incomes of less than $ 30,000 – affordable , high-quality after-school programs can be hard to find .
According to the May report , 41 % of people who prioritize gun rights said they would n't vote for a candidate with whom they disagreed on gun policy , even if they agreed with the candidate on most other issues . Only 31 % of gun-control supporters said gun policy was a make-or-break voting issue for them .
Among the public overall , 62 % say they are bothered `` a lot '' by the feeling that some corporations do n't pay their fair share of taxes , and 60 % say the same about some wealthy people not paying their fair share . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) say they are bothered a great deal by the complexity of the system . But with the April 18 tax filing deadline approaching , only about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they are bothered a lot by the amount they pay in taxes . And just 20 % say that about the feeling that the poor do not pay their fair share of taxes . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted April 5 - 11 , 2017 among 1,501 adults , finds an increase in the share saying that the tax system is unfair , largely because of a shift in opinion among Democrats .
The Los Angeles-Long Beach , Calif. , metropolitan area has the nation 's largest Hispanic population—5.7 million—and alone accounts for more than one-in-ten ( 11 % ) Hispanics nationally .3 All population estimates presented in this report are for Hispanics living in the 50 states and the District of Columbia . The New York-Northeastern New Jersey metropolitan area is the second largest by Hispanic population ( 4.2 million ) and is home to 8 % of Hispanics nationwide . Six of the 10 largest Hispanic metropolitan populations are in just two states . California has three–Los Angeles ( # 1 ) , Riverside-San Bernardino ( # 4 ) and San Francisco-Oakland-Vallejo ( # 10 ) . Texas is also home to three of the 10 largest Hispanic metropolitan areas—Houston-Brazoria ( # 3 ) , Dallas-Fort Worth ( # 6 ) and San Antonio ( # 9 ) . The other four largest Hispanic metropolitan populations are New York ( # 2 ) ; Chicago , Ill. ( # 5 ) ; Miami-Hialeah , Fla. ( # 7 ) ; and Phoenix , Ariz. ( # 8 ) . Overall , each of the 10 largest Hispanic metropolitan areas has a Hispanic population of more than 1 million and Hispanics are the largest minority or ethnic group in each . While these 10 metropolitan areas represent the largest Hispanic populations , within each area , the Hispanic share varies , as do the characteristics of the Hispanic population that resides in each area .
In many countries , a majority or plurality believes relations will remain about the same . However , in most regions of the world , the share of the public that believes things will worsen outweighs the share that thinks relations will improve by a ratio of two-to-one . While relatively few say they expect relations to improve , more than half hold this view in Russia and Israel .
They also viewed more content—almost 25 pages per month compared to visitors from Facebook who viewed only 4.2 pages and visitors from search , at 4.9 . And this group also returned far more often to the same news site , visiting 10.9 times per month compared with 2.9 for Facebook visitors and 3.1 for those coming from search .
Overall , the District of Columbia has the highest college degree attainment rate among Hispanic adults , with 36.2 % of those ages 25 and older holding a bachelor 's degree , according to the U.S. Census Bureau 's 2011 American Community Survey . Following D.C. are the neighboring states of Virginia and Maryland , with college degree-attainment rates of 24.1 % and 21.2 % , respectively , among their Hispanic adult populations .
About a quarter ( 26 % ) of the public says they very closely followed news about vandalism and threats directed at Democrats following the health care reform vote ; 5 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Democrats ( 33 % ) were more likely to have followed this story very closely than were Republicans ( 20 % ) . A quarter of independents ( 25 % ) followed this story very closely . Reporting on this topic made up 7 % of news coverage , according to the PEJ analysis . One-in-five say they very closely followed news about tensions between Israel and the United States , and 4 % say this is the story they followed most closely . Republicans ( 28 % very closely ) followed this story more closely than did independents ( 19 % ) or Democrats ( 15 % ) . News coverage of this topic accounted for 3 % of the newshole . Fewer than one-in-five ( 17 % ) paid very close attention to reports about the Vatican 's handling of sex-abuse scandals in the Catholic Church . Still , that was more than twice as many as followed the story very closely one week earlier ( 8 % ) ; 4 % said this was the story they followed most closely . News about this story accounted for 3 % of coverage . As the Dow Jones Industrial Average flirted with 11,000 points , few Americans were paying close attention . Just 13 % say they very closely followed recent ups and downs in the stock market , while 3 % say this is the story they followed most closely . Men ( 18 % ) were more likely than women ( 9 % ) to have followed the stock market very closely , and Republicans ( 20 % ) were more likely than independents ( 12 % ) or Democrats ( 11 % ) to have kept a very close eye on the market . Stories about the stock market made up less than 1 % of coverage .
Among Americans who are employed or have been looking for work , increased outsourcing of jobs to other countries tops the list of trends they say have hurt their job or career . Three-in-ten say this is the case , compared with roughly one-in-five ( 22 % ) who say the same about the growing number of immigrants working in the U.S. and 20 % who blame a rise in imports . Overall , however , majorities say these factors have n't made much difference in their job or career .
About four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they followed news about the economy very closely last week , much more than the 23 % that said they were very closely following news about the impact of the volcano in Iceland . In addition , about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they very closely followed news about proposals for more strict regulation of banks and financial institutions . About two-in-ten ( 21 % ) say they followed news about the deadly explosion on an off-shore oil rig near the coast of Louisiana very closely ; 12 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the explosion made up 5 % of coverage , according to PEJ . A smaller percentage ( 14 % ) say they very closely followed reports about the Vatican 's handling of sex-abuse scandals within the Catholic Church ; 6 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Interest in the stories is similar to interest in late March , when 17 % said they were following developments in this scandal very closely . The stories made up 1 % of coverage last week .
Core Conservatives are more likely than other GOP-leaning groups to say they follow politics and government most of the time and say they always vote . Consequently , while Core Conservatives make up about a third of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents overall ( 31 % ) , they constitute a larger proportion of politically engaged Republicans ( 43 % ) .
In early January , women were also less positive about prospects for the coming year than were men – and less optimistic than they had been a year earlier . Just 43 % of women said they expected 2017 to be a better year than 2016 , compared with 56 % of men . In January 2016 , nearly identical shares of women ( 55 % ) and men ( 56 % ) said the coming year would be better for them .
The survey , conducted March 20 - 23 , found that while nearly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) followed news about the investigation into the missing jetliner very closely , 30 % each tracked news about Russia taking control of Crimea and the U.S. economy very closely . But when people are asked which story they followed most closely , interest in the probe into the Malaysian plane 's fate far exceeds interest in the week 's other news stories .
As was the case in 2017 , the public is divided in opinions about whether economic assistance for needy people around the world should be increased ( 35 % ) , maintained at its current level ( 33 % ) or decreased ( 28 % ) . Since 2013 , however , the share of Americans who favor increased spending for needy people overseas has risen 14 percentage points ( from 21 % to 35 % ) , while the share who support decreased spending has declined 20 points ( from 48 % to 28 % ) . About half of Democrats ( 49 % ) say economic aid to needy people around the world should be increased , up modestly from 41 % in 2017 . Six years ago , just 30 % said spending should be increased . Republicans are much less supportive of increased economic assistance to the needy around the world – just 15 % say spending should be increased , and this number has not changed much since 2009 .
When Pakistanis are asked about the top problems facing their country , rising prices , electricity shortages , a lack of job opportunities , and crime top the list . Nine-in-ten or more name these as very big problems facing their nation . Half or more of Pakistanis rate 11 of the 16 issues included on the survey as very big problems .
Since President Donald Trump took office in 2017 , his approach to U.S.-China relations has included increased pressure via tariffs and trade war rhetoric , and now , with the onset of an unprecedented pandemic , the stage has been set for both sides to cast aspersions on the other . Against this backdrop , negative views of China have continued to grow , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of Americans conducted in March . Roughly two-thirds now say they have an unfavorable view of China , the most negative rating for the country since the Center began asking the question in 2005 , and up nearly 20 percentage points since the start of the Trump administration . Positive views of China 's leader , President Xi Jinping , are also at historically low levels .
A global median of 54 % consider climate change a very serious problem , according to our survey of 40 nations . But there are regional differences on views of climate change , with people from Latin America and Africa expressing more concern than others . Before delegates from 195 nations approved a landmark climate accord in Paris this year to limit carbon emissions , our spring survey found a median of 78 % supporting such a deal .
About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) Americans say that Russia or other foreign governments definitely ( 9 % ) or probably ( 30 % ) influenced the congressional elections , while six-in-ten say foreign governments probably ( 44 % ) or definitely ( 16 % ) did not influence the elections . Democrats are more likely than Republicans to say they think there was foreign influence in the congressional elections : 53 % say this , compared with 21 % of Republicans . This is similar to the partisan divide in expectations before the election , when 80 % of Democrats and 53 % of Republicans said it was at least somewhat likely that there would be foreign attempts to influence the election .
Pew Research Center 's 2014 Religious Landscape Study finds that 14.7 % of U.S. adults are affiliated with the mainline Protestant tradition – a sharp decline from 18.1 % when our last Religious Landscape Study was conducted in 2007 . Mainline Protestants have declined at a faster rate than any other major Christian group , including Catholics and evangelical Protestants , and as a result also are shrinking as a share of all Protestants and Christians . Indeed , despite overall U.S. population growth between 2007 and 2014 , the total number of mainline Protestant adults has decreased by roughly 5 million during that time ( from about 41 million in 2007 to 36 million in 2014 ) . Generational replacement appears to be playing a significant role . Older generations have larger shares of mainline Protestants , including 26 % of members of the Greatest generation ( those born before 1928 ) and 22 % of members of the Silent generation ( those born 1928 - 1945 ) . Mainline Protestant adults in the U.S. have a median age of 52 , higher than the group 's median age in 2007 ( 50 ) and older than any other major religious tradition .
The public takes a deeply pessimistic view of the prospects for partisan cooperation in the coming year . About seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) say they think Republicans and Democrats in Washington will bicker and oppose one another more than usual this year ; far fewer ( 21 % ) think they will work together to solve problems more than usual .
Roughly half or more of Millennials in six of the seven European Union nations surveyed by the Pew Research Center last year believe that `` success in life is pretty much determined by forces outside our control . '' This includes 63 % of young Germans and Italians and 62 % of young Greeks and Poles . ( Brits were the exception , with only 37 % of those ages 18 to 33 agreeing with that statement . ) By contrast , slightly more than four-in-ten young Americans ( 43 % ) share this view .
Responding to an open-ended question asking which country or group poses the greatest threat to their country in the future , just 6 % of Americans named Iran in spring 2019 , prior to the missile strike that killed Soleimani . This figure represents the smallest share naming Iran as America 's greatest threat since the question was first asked in 2007 . That year , nearly a quarter of Americans chose Iran as the greatest threat to the country . As of 2019 , Americans were much more concerned about the threats posed by China ( 24 % ) , Russia ( 24 % ) and North Korea ( 12 % ) .
As has been the case throughout his presidency , U.S. President Donald Trump receives largely negative reviews from publics around the world . Across 32 countries surveyed by Pew Research Center , a median of 64 % say they do not have confidence in Trump to do the right thing in world affairs , while just 29 % express confidence in the American leader .
Most Republicans and Republican leaners ( 60 % ) say the GOP is not doing a good job of representing their views on government spending . And 53 % of Republicans say the party is not doing a good job of representing their views on same-sex marriage . On the issue of abortion , Republicans are divided ( 44 % good job , 45 % not a good job ) . Democrats have more positive views of the way their party is handling all four issues : About six-in-ten say that the party does a good job of representing their views on same-sex marriage ( 62 % ) and abortion ( 61 % ) . However , only about half of Democrats say their party is doing well on government spending ( 49 % ) and immigration ( 47 % ) .
More Americans have heard a lot about Michelle Obama than about Cindy McCain , and Mrs. Obama has received much more media coverage than Mrs. McCain . However , somewhat more of those who have heard about Mrs. Obama say the coverage of her has been mostly negative rather than mostly positive ( by 26 % to 21 % ) ; by comparison , 31 % of those who have heard about Mrs. McCain say coverage of her has been mostly positive while just 7 % say it has been generally negative . Overall , 78 % of Americans have heard at least a little about Michelle Obama . Three-in-ten say they have heard a lot about Mrs. Obama , up from 21 % just three weeks ago . By contrast , just 54 % have heard at least a little about Cindy McCain , including only 9 % who have heard a lot about her . News coverage of Michelle Obama has far outweighed that of Cindy McCain . According to the Pew Project for Excellence in Journalism 's Campaign Coverage Index , from Jan. 1 through June 15 of this year , Obama appeared as a significant newsmaker in 102 stories . Cindy McCain has appeared in just 28 stories over this period1 . Coverage of Michelle Obama has increased dramatically in recent weeks — nearly half of the stories featuring her have appeared in the national news media since May 14 .
Supreme Court justices tend to come from similar backgrounds . Seven of the eight current Supreme Court justices , for example , previously served as federal appeals court judges . ( Only Elena Kagan did not . ) When looking at 112 current or former justices , the vast majority had prior experience in private legal practice , according to a Pew Research Center analysis in March 2017 . More than half had previously served as judges on either federal or state courts or held elected office .
Roughly half of Americans ( 51 % ) say it 's better for a woman who wants to reach high political office to have children before entering politics , according to a 2018 Pew Research Center survey on gender and leadership . About a quarter ( 26 % ) say it would be better to wait until she is well-established in her political career , while 19 % say it would be better for a woman not to have children at all if she plans to seek higher office . Views are different when it comes to leadership positions in the business world . About a quarter of Americans ( 23 % ) say it 's better for women who want to reach top executive jobs in business to have children early in their careers , 41 % say they should wait and 34 % say it 's better for them not to have children at all .
Obama is rated favorably by 76 % of Latino registered voters , making him much more popular among that voting group than McCain ( 44 % favorable ) and President Bush ( 27 % favorable ) . Hillary Clinton 's ratings among Latino registered voters are 73 % favorable and 24 % unfavorable ; Obama 's are 76 % favorable and 17 % unfavorable .
The recent attacks in Paris , France and San Bernardino , Calif. have not led to a fundamental shift in how the public views the U.S. military campaign against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria . About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say the U.S. effort against Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria is going either not too well ( 39 % ) or not at all well ( 19 % ) ; 35 % say the campaign is going either very ( 7 % ) or fairly ( 28 % ) well . Views have changed little on this question over the course of the past year , with majorities consistently offering negative assessments of the current state of the campaign .
The first presidential debate Monday night offers Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton an opportunity to explain their positions on important issues facing the country . Two months after the party conventions , only about half of voters ( 48 % ) say they know `` a lot '' about where Clinton stands on important issues , while even fewer ( 41 % ) say this about Trump . Republicans and independents who lean toward the Republican Party are roughly twice as likely as Democrats and Democratic leaners to say they know a lot about where Trump stands on important issues ( 58 % vs. 30 % ) . Nearly four-in-ten Democrats ( 39 % ) say they know little or nothing about where he stands .
This turn to reporting – and away from opinion – would be a significant change for the network . A 2012 Pew Research Center analysis found that MSNBC 's programming was 85 % commentary/opinion and 15 % factual reporting . By contrast , both CNN and Fox News Channel had a relatively even balance : 46 % opinion vs. 54 % reporting for CNN , and 55 % opinion vs. 45 % reporting for Fox News .
Support of President Obama and his signature legislation , the Affordable Care Act , has declined among Hispanics over the past six months , even though the popularity of both is nearly unchanged among the public overall , according to a new analysis of Pew Research Center survey data . Today , as many Hispanics approve as disapprove ( 47 % -47 % ) of the new health care law . That 's down markedly compared with the 61 % approval just six months ago .
Two-thirds of DACA recipients are ages 25 or younger , and a majority are women . Women make up a slight majority ( 53 % ) of active DACA recipients , while 47 % are men , according to the tabulations from U.S . Citizenship and Immigration Services .
Asked if it is important to have been born within France 's borders to be truly French , 74 % of National Front adherents say yes , compared with 42 % of the rest of French adults . A similar divide exists in Germany , where those who have a favorable view of AfD ( 75 % ) say one must be born in Germany to truly share the national identity , while only 44 % of other Germans voice such opinions . Family ties to the homeland are also given primacy by those with favorable views of nationalist-populist parties . Roughly three-quarters of AfD backers ( 78 % ) and National Front supporters ( 73 % ) , and more than half of PVV adherents ( 55 % ) , believe it is important that people have family roots in their country to be truly German , French or Dutch . Roughly half or less of other French and Germans and only about a third of other Dutch adults agree .
As a whole , Republicans are more bearish about the national economy than Democrats . Just 16 % of Republicans rated the economy as excellent or good in our May survey , compared with 36 % of Democrats . And Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say the economy is n't recovering . One-in-three Republicans ( 33 % ) said the economy was n't recovering at all , compared with 7 % of Democrats . In a January survey , more Republicans ( 63 % ) than Democrats ( 47 % ) said they were falling behind financially .
Nonwhites now account for the majority of the nation 's newborns , as well as the majority of K-12 students in public schools . More than half of newborn babies in the U.S. are racial or ethnic minorities , a threshold first crossed in 2013 . Nonwhite students also account for the majority of the nation 's K-12 public school students . As of fall 2018 , children from racial and ethnic minority groups were projected to make up 52.9 % of public K-12 students .
Educational attainment among U.S. Latinos has been changing rapidly in recent years , reflecting the group 's growth in the nation 's public K-12 schools and colleges . Over the past decade , the Hispanic high school dropout rate has declined and college enrollment has increased , even as Hispanics trail other groups in earning a bachelor 's degree . Over the past decade , the Hispanic high school dropout rate has dropped dramatically . The rate reached a new low in 2014 , dropping from 32 % in 2000 to 12 % in 2014 among those ages 18 to 24 . This helped lower the national dropout rate from 12 % to 7 % over the same time period – also a new low . Even so , the Hispanic dropout rate remains higher than that of blacks ( 7 % ) , whites ( 5 % ) and Asians ( 1 % ) .
Not surprisingly , responses are sharply divided along partisan lines . Two-thirds of Republican voters ( 66 % ) say Trump would do an excellent or good job helping workers get the training they need , while only 6 % of Democratic voters agree . Even so , a significant minority of Republicans ( 30 % ) say Trump would do only a fair or poor job at this .
For Trump supporters , the candidate 's character and personality is mentioned far more frequently than any other concern . Four-in-ten registered voters who support Trump point to his personality as their main concern – with 34 % specifically referring to his temperament or speaking style .
In fiscal 2017 , 179,049 high-skilled foreign workers received H-1B visas . As the nation 's biggest temporary employment visa program , H-1B visas accounted for about a quarter ( 23 % ) of all temporary visas for employment issued in 2017 . In all , more than 1.6 million H-1B visas were issued from fiscal years 2007 to 2017 . The denial rate of H-1B visa applications increased in 2019 under the Trump administration . Meanwhile , more H-1B visas went to immigrants with a U.S. master 's degree or higher . The administration has also said it plans to restrict work permits for spouses of H-1B holders .
The total number of people living in sub-Saharan Africa who were forced to leave their homes due to conflict reached a new high of 18.4 million in 2017 , up sharply from 14.1 million in 2016 – the largest regional increase of forcibly displaced people in the world , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees data . The world 's displaced population has increased dramatically since 2012 , reaching its highest levels since World War II . The Middle East drove much of the increase between 2012 and 2015 due to conflicts in Syria , Iraq and Yemen , but in 2017 , the vast majority of growth has come from displaced populations living in sub-Saharan Africa . Since 2015 , the region 's displaced population has jumped by 42 % , with most of this increase taking place in 2017 alone . By comparison , the number of displaced people living in the Middle East-North Africa region fell 8 % between 2015 and 2017 , though it remains the world 's largest total overall .
It 's been well documented that younger adults differ from their elders in their news habits , both in the platforms they use and the sources they rely on . A Pew Research Center report released today looks specifically at the political news habits of Millennials , and how they vary from the two generations before them . Here are five key takeaways from the report : Millennials rely on Facebook for their news far more than any other source . About six-in-ten online Millennials ( 61 % ) report getting political news on Facebook in a given week . Baby Boomers ' political media habits , on the other hand , are strongly rooted in local TV : A majority of them ( 60 % ) say they turn there for political news . Millennials ' relatively low reliance on local TV ( 37 % watch political news there in a given week ) almost mirrors Baby Boomers ' low reliance on Facebook ( 39 % ) . Gen Xers bridge the gap , with about equal portions of online adults in this generation getting political news from Facebook ( 51 % ) and local TV ( 46 % ) .
Views of Obama 's handling of the threat of terrorism have always been strongly associated with partisanship . And his ratings have dropped across all partisan groups . Today , Democrats continue to largely approve of Obama 's handling of the terrorist threat , though to a lesser extent than earlier in his presidency . Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) of Democrats now say they approve , while 29 % disapprove . In May , 72 % of Democrats approved of his handling of the terrorist threat . Only 11 % of Republicans approve of Obama 's handling of the threat posed by terrorism while nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) disapprove . Approval on this issue among independents has also reached a historical low . Only a third of independents ( 33 % ) now approve of the way Obama is handling the threat of terrorism ; roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) offer a negative appraisal .
Still , some social media users are ambivalent about seeing these types of posts or find them enjoyable . About four-in-ten say they do n't feel strongly about encountering these discussions , while a much smaller share ( 15 % ) say they like seeing lots of political posts on social media .
Among 38 of the world 's more developed nations , the United States has the least liberal government policies regarding paid parental leave , leading some to argue that this puts American women at a disadvantage as they navigate their careers . But it also turns out that some countries that offer more liberal parental leave policies have higher pay gaps among men and women ages 30 to 34 , according to analyses of 16 countries conducted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development . OECD theorizes that this link may be driven by the fact that women are more likely than men to actually use their parental leave , and that time out of the workforce is associated with lower wages .
The party affiliation of Latino registered voters mirrors how they intend to vote in the congressional elections , according to a September survey . If the election for Congress were being held today , 63 % of Latino registered voters said they would support the Democratic congressional candidate in their district , while 29 % said they would support the Republican candidate .
In another sign of voter discontent , large numbers of the supporters of both Trump and Clinton view their choice as more of a vote against the opposing candidate than an expression of support for their candidate . More than half of Trump supporters ( 55 % ) view their vote more as a vote against Clinton , while just 41 % view it more as a vote for Trump . Among GOP candidates since 2000 , only Mitt Romney has drawn as much negative support ( 58 % of Romney supporters saw their vote more as a vote against Barack Obama ) . Clinton 's supporters are divided – 48 % view their vote more as a vote for their own candidate , while 50 % say it is more a vote against Trump . But that is the highest share of a Democratic candidate 's supporters viewing their choice as more a vote `` against '' the opposing candidate dating back to 2000 . In 2008 , just a quarter of Obama 's supporters said their vote was more a vote against John McCain than a vote for Obama .
Sweden is an example of this pattern . A large majority of Swedes ( 84 % ) say China 's importance has grown over the past 10 years . Far fewer ( 20 % ) say the same of the U.S. – and , in fact , around a third ( 34 % ) say U.S. power and influence has decreased during this time .
Within these countries , those who hold favorable views of right-wing populist parties – like the Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) or Italy 's Northern League – are more likely to express confidence in Putin than those who hold unfavorable views of those parties . Just about half of those who give positive ratings to the AfD and 46 % who favor the Northern League say they are confident Putin will do the right thing regarding world affairs . In France , those partial to the right-wing National Front ( FN ) are about twice as likely as those with negative views of the FN to say they are confident in Putin 's leadership ( 31 % vs. 16 % ) . And those who view Geert Wilders ' Dutch Party for Freedom favorably are nearly three times as likely as the party 's detractors to express confidence in Putin ( 26 % vs. 10 % ) .
Mormons are the most heavily Republican-leaning religious group in the U.S. , while a pair of major historically black Protestant denominations – the African Methodist Episcopal ( AME ) Church and the National Baptist Convention – are two of the most reliably Democratic groups , according to our February blog post based on data from Pew Research Center 's 2014 Religious Landscape Study .
The vertical axis measures real income growth ( measured in constant dollars on a purchasing power parity basis ) between 1988 and 2008 . The horizontal axis shows not time but income levels , from lowest to highest . For example , the second dot on the chart marks the 10th percentile of income , meaning people who outearned just 10 % of the world 's population ; that group saw its real income rise more than 40 % over that 20-year period .
Roughly eight-in-ten Argentines ( 83 % ) say the country 's economic situation is bad . This share is lower than in 2002 , when 98 % said the economic situation was bad following an economic crisis . Currently , only 15 % say the economic situation is good . ( Our survey was conducted before the market shock that occurred in August . )
The LDS church typically places very high importance on families and traditional gender roles . Indeed , 81 % of Mormons say being a good parent is one of the most important things in life . And 73 % say the same about having a successful marriage . By comparison , half of all U.S. adults say being a good parent is one of the most important things in life , and only one-third say having a successful marriage is of utmost importance . Additionally , 58 % of Mormons say a marriage where the husband provides and the wife stays at home is preferable to one in which both spouses have jobs . Among the general public , most people ( 62 % ) express the opposite view , saying a marriage in which both spouses have jobs and take responsibility for housework and child rearing is more satisfying . At this fall 's pre-conference session specifically for Mormon women , participants were urged to defend the church 's teachings on marriage , family and sexuality .
Americans who are more politically engaged are more likely to donate . During the 2016 campaign , politically engaged Americans were much more likely to make political donations . Those who said they follow what is going on in government and public affairs most of the time reported donating at a rate of 28 % , compared with less than 7 % of those who follow government and public affairs some of the time or less often , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Sept. 27-Oct. 10 , 2016 . Among those who say they vote always or nearly always , 21 % said that they made a donation , compared with 4 % of those who seldom voted or voted only part of the time . Democrats were twice as likely as Republicans to say they donated last year . In 2016 , 22 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners and 10 % Republicans and Republican leaners reported making a donation , according to data from ANES . This marks the first election since at least 1992 when Democrats have been significantly more likely than Republicans to donate .
The public 's news interests are largely unchanged from a week earlier . But news organizations suddenly shifted their focus from Japan to the ongoing military action in Libya . News about Libya accounted for 41 % of news coverage this week , compared with just 15 % devoted to the Japan crisis , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Just a week earlier , news from Japan accounted for more than half ( 57 % ) of all news coverage .
A new national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted July 24 - 27 among 1,005 adults , finds that compared with three months ago , the public is more likely to believe that the events in Russia and Ukraine are important to U.S. interests . About a week after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine , 48 % say events in the region are very important to the United States , up 17 points from April ( 31 % ) .
Across all age groups , about half or more say increasing diversity makes the country a better place to live . However , 15 % of those 65 and older say growing ethnic diversity makes the U.S. a worse place to live , the highest among age groups . About eight-in-ten adults with postgraduate degrees ( 81 % ) say growing diversity makes the country a better place to live . Smaller , though sizable , majorities of college graduates ( 70 % ) and those with some college experience ( 61 % ) say the same . Among those with a high school degree or less education , attitudes are divided : While 45 % say growing diversity makes the country a better place , 42 % say it does n't make much difference and 11 % say it makes the country worse .
Baby Boomers and prior generations have cast the vast majority of votes in every presidential election since 1980 , data from the Census Bureau 's November Current Population Survey voting supplement show . In 2012 , Boomers and previous generations accounted for 56 % of those who said they voted . And these generations dominated earlier elections to an even greater degree .
After a year marked by riots over cartoon portrayals of Muhammad , a major terrorist attack in London , and continuing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan , most Muslims and Westerners are convinced that relations between them are generally bad these days . Many in the West see Muslims as fanatical , violent , and as lacking tolerance . Meanwhile , Muslims in the Middle East and Asia generally see Westerners as selfish , immoral and greedy – as well as violent and fanatical .
There is greater tolerance in the U.S. than in Europe for offensive speech . A solid majority ( 77 % ) of Americans believe citizens should be allowed to make statements that are offensive to people 's religious beliefs , a significantly higher share of the public than in any of the European Union nations included in our 2015 survey . In Poland , Germany and Italy , fewer than half think this kind of speech should be legal . Similarly , Americans are more likely to say offensive statements about minority groups should be permitted .
This internal dissent contributes to the lower job ratings Republican leaders receive from the public when compared with Democratic congressional leaders . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 4 - 8 among 1,506 adults , finds that just 24 % of the public approves of Republican leaders ' job performance , while somewhat more ( 33 % ) approve of the job of Democratic congressional leaders . This modest advantage for Democratic leaders stems from the substantially more positive job ratings they receive from their own base : 57 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners approve of how Democratic congressional leaders are handling their job . That compares with just 36 % of Republicans and Republican leaners who approve of the job their party leaders are doing . Democratic and Republican leaders get similarly low job ratings from members of the opposition party .
English proficiency among recently arrived immigrants is on the rise . Among those who arrived in the U.S. in the past five years , 45 % said in 2017 that they either speak only English at home or speak English very well , up from 38 % in 2010 . Due to this increase , recent arrivals are closing the gap with longer-term immigrants , who have seen little change in their English proficiency . About half of immigrants who have lived in the U.S. for more than 10 years said in 2017 that they either speak only English at home or speak English very well , a share little changed from 2010 .
The new data show that 4.32 million adults ( ages 18 or older ) were newlywed in 2012 , a 3 % percent increase over the 4.21 million adults newly married in 2011 . ( The data do not include same-sex couples . ) But a closer look at the demographic patterns reveals some interesting insights about who is getting married . From 2011 to 2012 , the total number of newly married adults increased by 113,000 ( from 4.21 million to 4.32 million ) . Examining the newlyweds by education level , the number of newly married adults with at least a bachelor 's degree increased by 98,000 from 2011 to 2012 . Thus , almost the entire increase in new marriages ( 87 % ) from 2011 to 2012 is accounted for by the college-educated .
Americans are increasingly going online just for fun and to pass the time . On any given day , 53 % of all the young adults ages 18 - 29 go online for no particular reason except to have fun or to pass the time . Many of them go online in purposeful ways , as well . But the results of a survey by the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project show that young adults ' use of the internet can at times be simply for the diversion it presents . Indeed , 81 % of all young adults in this age cohort report they have used the internet for this reason at least occasionally . These results come in the larger context that internet users of all ages are much more likely now than in the past to say they go online for no particular reason other than to pass the time or have fun . Some 58 % of all adults ( or 74 % of all online adults ) say they use the internet this way . And a third of all adults ( 34 % ) say they used the internet that way `` yesterday '' – or the day before Pew Internet reached them for the survey .1 Both figures are higher than in 2009 when we last asked this question and vastly higher than in the middle of the last decade .
However , slightly more Democratic voters say the issue of which party controls Congress will be a factor in their vote than did so at this point in 2010 . Currently , 62 % of Democratic voters say partisan control of Congress will be a factor in their vote , compared with 57 % four years ago . In this regard , the Democrats have caught up with the Republicans : 62 % of Republican voters also say which party controls Congress will matter in their vote .
The NBC News national exit poll documented how Trump and his populist message disproportionately appealed to both white men and women living in rural America . A recent survey by Pew Research Center , conducted this spring in association with the Markle Foundation , illustrates the depth of their financial frustrations with the status quo on some key economic measures – anxieties that are more deeply felt by rural whites than by whites living in the nation 's cities or suburbs . The Pew Research Center survey , conducted May 25 to June 29 , 2016 , with a nationally representative sample of 5,006 adults , suggests that the broad economic concerns of rural white Americans align to a striking degree with several key issues that were among the cornerstones of the Trump campaign : jobs , immigrants and fears about an eroding standard of living . Moreover , these anxieties are more deeply felt among rural whites than among whites in the cities or suburbs . Among the issues :
Among both Gen Zers and Millennials , 53 % say people of different races marrying each other is a good thing for our society , compared with 41 % of Gen Xers , 30 % of Boomers and 20 % of those in the Silent Generation , according to the Center 's 2019 report . Millennials and Generation Z have been at the vanguard of changing views on same-sex marriage . About half of Gen Zers and Millennials say gay and lesbian couples being allowed to marry is a good thing for our society , while 33 % of Gen Xers , 27 % of Boomers and 18 % of Silents say the same , according to the 2019 report .
Support for the National Front is somewhat stronger among men , the less educated , and Catholics – though even among these groups , support is limited . In 2016 , support stood at 28 % among men , 26 % among those with no college degree and 27 % among self-identified Roman Catholics .
In evaluating news coverage of different groups , pluralities of Americans say that coverage of poor people and Muslims is too negative , while somewhat smaller percentages say the same about coverage of blacks and Hispanics . Among eight groups tested , whites and middle-class people are the only groups that majorities say are treated fairly by the press ; 57 % say that news coverage of whites is generally fair while 56 % say the same about coverage of middle-class people . Notably , about a third ( 32 % ) say that coverage of wealthy people is too positive — the highest percentage for any group included in the survey . About as many see coverage of the wealthy as too positive as say it is generally fair ( 31 % ) .
At the same time , the new findings show that mobile divides even exist for phone owners . Significant numbers of owners struggle to use their phones to full advantage . A median of 46 % in these countries say they frequently or occasionally have difficulties getting reliable phone connections , 37 % say it can be a challenge to pay for their phones and 33 % report finding places to charge their phones is a problem at least occasionally . In addition , a median of 42 % report frequently or occasionally avoiding some activities on their phones because they use too much data . In some countries , mobile owners ' problems are particularly striking . In Lebanon , for example , 77 % of phone owners report having problems getting reliable mobile connections , and about two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they avoid doing things with their phones because those activities use too much data . In Jordan , nearly half ( 48 % ) report having trouble paying for their phone , while in Tunisia four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say it can be a challenge to find places to recharge their phones .
Four states account for half of the nation 's wiretapping activity , according to a new report from the Administrative Office of U.S. Courts . Nevada leads the nation in the number of wiretaps when population is factored in , according to the annual list of where federal and state judges have authorized law enforcement to monitor phone communications as part of criminal investigations in 2013 . California , New York , Nevada and Florida lead the nation in the number of mobile wiretap authorizations . California dwarfs the rest of the nation with about 26 % of the reported authorizations in 2013 , more than doubling New York with 12 % , and Nevada and Florida trailing with about 6 % each . When we factor in population , Nevada leads the nation with 38 mobile wiretaps for every 500,000 people . Most Nevada wiretaps ( 187 ) were sought by officials in Clark County , home to Las Vegas ; federal prosecutors in the state obtained authorization for 26 more , though only one was actually installed .
While election news dominated media coverage last week , the public continued to show relatively modest interest . According to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , midterm news made up 30 % of the newshole . Just more than one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say this was the news they followed most closely . Nearly a quarter ( 23 % ) say they followed election news very closely . Three-in-ten Republicans say they followed election news very closely last week , not much different from the 24 % of Democrats that say this . Two-in-ten independents ( 19 % ) say they followed election news very closely .
Algorithm-driven social media platforms can produce feelings of anger in their users – and most Americans are skeptical that the content they see on social media reflects reality . Nearly all the content an individual user might see on social media is chosen by computer programs attempting to deliver content that they might find relevant or engaging . When asked about emotions they experience from the content they see on social media , the largest share of users ( 44 % ) say they frequently feel amused – but 25 % say they frequently feel angry as a result of what they see on social media . More broadly , a majority of Americans ( 74 % ) think the content people post on social media does not provide an accurate picture of how society feels about important issues .
Average audience for the network TV Sunday morning political talk shows on ABC , CBS , Fox and NBC – This Week , Face the Nation , Fox News Sunday and Meet the Press , respectively – declined 8 % in 2018 , to about 2.3 million average viewers .
But the partisan divide on this question is more pronounced . About half of Republicans ( 53 % ) say immigrants coming to the U.S. make society worse in the long run , compared with just 24 % of Democrats .
Americans are more wary of economic globalization . About half of Americans ( 49 % ) say U.S. involvement in the global economy is a bad thing because it lowers wages and costs jobs ; only 44 % think it is a good thing because it creates new markets and opportunities for growth . Europeans tend to embrace economic globalization , although Greece is a clear exception .
The American public also tends to be skeptical about whether medical experts fully comprehend the health consequences of gene editing . A 36 % minority of Americans believe that medical researchers understand the health effects of gene editing for babies either very ( 7 % ) or fairly well ( 29 % ) , while 62 % say medical researchers do not understand the health effects at all or not too well .
Puerto Rico saw a historic net migration loss in 2018 , a year after hurricanes Maria and Irma . From 2017 to 2018 , 123,000 more people left than moved to Puerto Rico , compared with 78,000 the previous year . Between 2000 and 2009 , the net migration loss was no more than 6,000 each year . These losses significantly increased in 2011 and have grown since .
Gold-standard , nonpartisan surveys have found for decades that more U.S. adults identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party than the Republican Party – whether these surveys take place under GOP or Democratic presidential administrations . That is the finding of two of the highest-quality surveys that use nationally representative data collected through in-person interviews : the General Social Survey and the American National Election Studies . It 's also the result obtained by numerous other reputable surveys that poll Americans by telephone or online using randomly selected samples of adults , including those done by us here at Pew Research Center , as well as those done by Gallup , Fox News , Kaiser Family Foundation and The Associated Press-NORC . ( The Census Bureau , which runs the nation 's most authoritative surveys , notably does not ask Americans about their partisan affiliation . )
Among those who say almost everyone in their family shares their political views ( 22 % of the public ) , an overwhelming share ( 82 % ) says their family is comfortable talking about politics . Yet the share of adults who say their family is OK with political discussions decreases among those who say there is less agreement in their family on politics .
Russia 's power and influence is seen as a major threat by a median of four-in-ten across the continent , about the same share that sees U.S. power and influence as a threat ( median of 37 % ) . Meanwhile , only 35 % see the condition of the global economy as a major threat , as European countries have mostly recovered from the Great Recession and subsequent euro crisis . A median of 31 % see China as a major threat .
Few Americans are expecting much cooperation between parties despite talk that Obama and the Republicans might be able to find common ground on some issues in his last two years in office . Just 18 % of Democrats believed that Republican leaders would cooperate a great deal or fair amount with the White House and 37 % of Republicans shared that view . A majority of Americans in the December poll believed the next two years promises to bring more of the same political polarization that provided the backdrop for past battles in Congress , and between the Congress and the White House .
The decline in the belief in solid evidence of global warming has come across the political spectrum , but has been particularly pronounced among independents . Just 53 % of independents now see solid evidence of global warming , compared with 75 % who did so in April 2008 . Republicans , who already were highly skeptical of the evidence of global warming , have become even more so : just 35 % of Republicans now see solid evidence of rising global temperatures , down from 49 % in 2008 and 62 % in 2007 . Fewer Democrats also express this view — 75 % today compared with 83 % last year .
But after a primary campaign that saw the most diverse group of candidates in the party 's history – including six women , several black , Hispanic and Asian candidates and the first openly gay contender – 41 % of Democratic registered voters say they are bothered that the likely Democratic nominee for the 2020 election is a white man in his 70s . About six-in-ten Democratic voters ( 59 % ) say this does not bother them , according to a new Pew Research Center survey .
There is overwhelming sentiment across Europe that Brexit would be a bad thing for the European institution : 89 % in Sweden , 75 % in the Netherlands and 74 % in Germany say the British leaving would be not good for the EU . France is the only country where more than a quarter ( 32 % ) of the public says it would be positive for the EU if the UK departed . Notably , in all nine countries where the question was asked , large pluralities of people on the left , in the middle and on the right of the political spectrum say a UK exit from the EU would be a bad thing for the EU . But the breakdown in sentiment by political party is more complex . In France , nearly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) supporters of the Socialist and Republican parties believe it would not be good for the EU if the UK left . However , National Front backers are nearly divided on the topic . And even though the German AfD shares many of the criticisms of the EU with the UK Independence Party , two-thirds of Germans who have a favorable opinion of the AfD think it would be a bad thing for the EU if the UK left .
Climate change is a leading global concern among the public , too , according to a recent Pew Research Center survey of people in 39 countries earlier this year . A median of 54 % identify it as a major threat , the highest among eight threats tested this spring . Only financial instability conjures a similar level of concern .
The use of these labels to describe mixed-race ancestry is an example of how racial identity among Hispanics often defies conventional classifications used in the U.S. For example , among Hispanic adults we surveyed who say they consider themselves mixed race , mestizo or mulatto , only 13 % explicitly select two or more races or volunteer that they are `` mixed race '' when asked about their racial background in a standard race question ( like those asked on U.S. census forms ) . Instead , about four-in-ten of Hispanic respondents identifying as mestizo/mulatto say their race is white , while one-in-five volunteered their race as Hispanic .
Looking ahead , there is shared optimism about scientific efforts to confront COVID-19 . Large majorities of U.S. adults , and members of both parties , expect the year ahead to include an effective treatment or cure for COVID-19 ( 83 % ) as well all as a vaccine to prevent the disease ( 73 % ) . And 72 % of U.S. adults say they would definitely ( 42 % ) or probably ( 30 % ) get a coronavirus vaccine if one were available today , while about a quarter ( 27 % ) say they would not . Majorities across a range of demographic groups say they would get the vaccine . Most Democrats say they would get vaccinated by a margin of 79 % to 21 % . Republicans are slightly less inclined ; 65 % say they would definitely or probably get a vaccine while 34 % say they would decline .
Four decades after President Nixon declared `` war on cancer , '' the public still is not ready to declare victory , but many believe progress is being made . But that is not the case with two other public health challenges — prescription drug use and mental illness — where Americans believe the country is losing ground . To be sure , the public believes that cancer remains a major national problem—79 % say it is extremely or very serious , according to the Pew Research Center 's latest national survey . But 54 % of Americans say that the nation is making progress on cancer , while just 15 % think it is losing ground and 31 % say that things are staying about the same . ( The American Cancer Society said in a 2013 report that the 5-year relative survival rate for all persons diagnosed with cancer of all types between 2002 and 2008 was 68 % , up from 49 % in 1975 - 77 ) . When it comes to mental illness , just 19 % say the nation is making progress in dealing with the disease while 16 % say it is making progress on prescription drug abuse . Significantly more Americans say the country is losing ground on these two problems ( 35 % on mental illness , 37 % on prescription drug abuse ) . Those are the most pessimistic measures for any of the seven public health issues included in the survey . Relatively few Americans ( 17 % ) also think progress is being made in combating alcohol abuse , but a lower number ( 23 % ) say ground is being lost than in the cases of mental illness or prescription drug abuse . About six-in-ten ( 58 % ) say the alcohol abuse problem is staying about the same , while 23 % say the country is losing ground on dealing with alcohol abuse .
American voters are generally skeptical that either Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump would make a `` great '' or `` good '' president . But another dynamic in the 2016 presidential election is the significant share of voters who say their vote is based more on which candidate they are against rather than which one they are for . In a recent Pew Research Center survey , 53 % of Clinton supporters say they consider their vote more in support of her , while 46 % say their vote is more against Trump . Negative voting is somewhat more prevalent among Trump supporters : 53 % say their vote is primarily against Clinton . Fewer ( 44 % ) say their vote is in support of Trump .
Religious restrictions increased in the Middle East-North Africa region in the year following the Arab Spring , and Egypt was home to some of the most intense government restrictions . But in Egypt , the government 's restrictions also are coupled with a Muslim public that is considerably less tolerant of religious pluralism than Muslims elsewhere . Those actions earn Egypt an overall score of 8.9 out of 10 on the 2011 Government Restrictions Index — a scale developed by Pew Research to gauge government restrictions on religion in nearly 200 countries and territories over time . That 's much higher than Middle Eastern-North African countries as a whole , where the median index score ( including Egypt 's ) is 5.9 .
Teenagers have previously lagged behind adults in their ownership of cell phones , but several years of survey data collected by the Pew Internet & American Life Project show that those ages 12 - 17 are closing the gap in cell phone ownership . The Project first began surveying teenagers about their mobile phones in its 2004 Teens and Parents project when a survey showed that 45 % of teens had a cell phone . Since that time , mobile phone use has climbed steadily among teens ages 12 to 17 – to 63 % in fall of 2006 and then to 71 % in early 2008 . Among teens , age is the most important variable in mobile phone ownership . Older teens are much more likely to own phones than younger teens , and the largest increase occurs at age 14 , right at the transition between middle and high school . Among 12 - 13 year olds , 52 % had a cell phone in 2008 . Mobile phone ownership jumped to 72 % at age 14 in that survey , and by the age of 17 more than eight in ten teens ( 84 % ) had their own cell phone .
Minerals and metals , as it happens , are one of the classes of imports on which the U.S. has had particularly low tariffs , according to data from the latest `` World Tariff Profiles '' report , produced jointly by the World Trade Organization , International Trade Centre and UN Conference on Trade and Development . The `` average most-favored-nation applied duty '' on minerals and metals was 1.7 % , or 125th out of 138 countries and other economic units . ( The `` most favored nation , '' or MFN , part of that metric refers to the tariffs each WTO member country promises to apply to all other WTO members , unless they 're part of a free trade area , customs union or other `` preferential trade agreement . '' Also , the report treats the 28-member European Union as a single entity , and it covers Hong Kong and Macao separately from the rest of China . )
The amount of news coverage of Obama bore a closer relationship to his public visibility than was the case for McCain . Throughout much of the summer , Obama received more coverage than McCain , according to a content analysis by Pew 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) ; Obama also was much more visible with the public . Yet even when McCain caught up to Obama in news coverage after the nominating conventions , Obama remained far and away the most visible candidate to the public .
Public more confident in Trump on trade than on immigration , nuclear weapons . In the Aug .15 - 21 telephone survey , half of Americans say they are very or somewhat confident in Trump to negotiate favorable trade agreements with other countries ; nearly as many ( 46 % ) are at least somewhat confident he can make good appointments to federal courts . Trump draws less confidence in his ability to make wise decisions about immigration and the use of nuclear weapons ( 40 % each ) . Majorities say they are not too or not at all confident in Trump 's handling of these two issues .
A national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted April 4 - 7 among 1,003 adults , finds 37 % say they are following the debate over gun control very closely . That compares with just 23 % who say they are very closely following news about debate over immigration policy . Among this week 's stories , only military threats made by North Korea and its plan to restart a nuclear reactor drew about as much interest ( 36 % very closely ) . Since the start of the year , roughly four-in-ten have followed news about the gun control debate very closely on four of five surveys on which it was included . By contrast , the debate over immigration policy has drawn very close interest from 23 % of the public both times it was included ( Jan. 31-Feb. 3 and April 4 - 7 ) .
Age is strongly correlated with social media usage : Those ages 18 to 29 have always been the most likely users of social media by a considerable margin . Today , 90 % of young adults use social media , compared with 12 % in 2005 , a 78-percentage point increase . At the same time , there has been a 69-point bump among those ages 30 - 49 , from 8 % in 2005 to 77 % today . While usage among young adults started to leveled off as early as 2010 , since then there has been a surge in usership among those 65 and older . In 2005 , 2 % of seniors used social media , compared with 35 % today .
There was bad economic news for consumers last week , as both oil prices and home mortgage foreclosures reached record highs . Public interest in these stories was substantial during a week filled mostly with campaign news . More than four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) say they followed news about the rising price of oil very closely last week . Aside from the presidential campaign , oil prices were cited most often as the news story the public followed more closely than any other ( 17 % ) . Interest in this story was high despite the fact that national news organizations devoted only 1 % of the total news coverage to this story . Public interest in news about oil prices is comparable to November 2007 , when oil reached $ 100 per barrel for the first time . At that time , 44 % of Americans were following news about oil prices very closely ( 23 % most closely that week ) .
With fewer options for online access at their disposal , many lower-income Americans are relying more on smartphones . As of early 2019 , 26 % of adults living in households earning less than $ 30,000 a year are `` smartphone-dependent '' internet users – meaning they own a smartphone but do not have broadband internet at home . This represents a substantial increase from 12 % in 2013 . In contrast , only 5 % of those living in households earning $ 100,000 or more fall into this category in 2019 .
Still , a larger share of Republicans currently support decreasing ( 33 % ) rather than increasing ( 22 % ) legal immigration into the U.S. ( 39 % say it should be kept at its present level ) . Among Democrats , more than twice as many support increasing ( 40 % ) rather than decreasing ( 16 % ) legal immigration ( 39 % of Democrats also want to keep it at its present level ) .
As a result of these trends , there is now a 41-point gap between the shares of Republicans ( 74 % ) and Democrats ( 33 % ) who say they sympathize more with Israel . This is the largest party gap in views on this question in surveys dating to 1978 . Among liberal Democrats , a greater share now say they sympathize more with the Palestinians ( 38 % ) than with Israel ( 26 % ) . Liberal Democrats are the only demographic or political group for which a larger share sympathizes more with the Palestinians than with Israel . By contrast , a greater share of conservative and moderate Democrats say they sympathize more with Israel ( 42 % ) than the Palestinians ( 25 % ) . However , the share of conservative and moderate Democrats who say they sympathize more with Israel is down 11 points since April 2016 . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) conservative Republicans say they sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians . A somewhat smaller majority of moderate and liberal Republicans ( 64 % ) also sympathizes more with Israel .
The Latino voter turnout rate in midterm elections has declined since 2006 . In 2014 , the turnout rate among Latino eligible voters dropped to a record low of 27.0 % . ( White and Asian eligible voters also had record-low turnout rates . ) Despite this , a record 6.8 million Latinos voted .
Perhaps influenced by political and sectarian tensions in the Middle East , favorable views of majority-Shia Iran have declined precipitously in some Muslim-majority countries over the last decade .
Republicans and Democrats have long been divided in their views of labor and business , and that remains the case today : Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are much more favorable toward labor unions than business corporations , while the inverse is true for Republicans and Republican leaners . Currently , 76 % of Democrats hold a favorable view of unions , while only two-in-ten express an unfavorable one . Among Republicans , fewer than half ( 44 % ) say they have a favorable opinion of labor unions . On the other hand , seven-in-ten Republicans express a positive opinion of business corporations . Democrats are divided : Roughly equal shares say they have a favorable view of business ( 46 % ) and an unfavorable one ( 47 % ) .
Mobile is becoming a preferred device for digital news . The portion of Americans who ever get news on a mobile device has gone up from 54 % in 2013 to 72 % today . Two-thirds ( 66 % ) of Americans get news on both desktop/laptop and mobile , but more of those prefer mobile ( 56 % ) than desktop ( 42 % ) . Long-form journalism has a place in today 's mobile-centric society . Cellphone users spend more time on average with long-form news articles than with short-form . In fact , the total engaged time with articles 1,000 words or longer averages about twice that of the engaged time with short-form stories : 123 seconds compared with 57 . And on average , long-form content attracts about the same number of visitors as short-form content .
Younger adults are using online streaming services as their go-to platform for watching television . About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 ( 61 % ) report that online streaming is the primary way they watch television , according to Center survey data from August . Smaller shares of 18- to 29-year-olds said their primary way of watching TV is via a cable or satellite subscription or through a digital antenna . By comparison , older age groups were more likely to say cable or satellite is their primary way of watching TV .
The most common type of foreign student visa is the F-1 visa , and these are typically given to those pursuing college degrees . The number of newly enrolled foreign students with F-1 visas at U.S. colleges and universities has grown dramatically , increasing from 138,000 in 2004 to 364,000 in 2016 . Much of this growth has happened since the start of the Great Recession .
An estimated 1.1 million Hispanics of Colombian origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Colombians are the seventh-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 2 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Colombian-origin population has almost tripled , growing from 378,000 to 1.1 million over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Colombian origin living in the U.S. grew by 131 % , up from 282,000 in 1990 to 653,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
The public continued to track news about the economy and the presidential election , while paying less attention to another important political story – Wisconsin Gov . Scott Walker 's victory in a hard-fought recall election . The latest weekly News Interest Index , conducted June 7 - 10 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , finds that 35 % say they followed reports about U.S. economic conditions very closely while 30 % tracked news about the presidential election very closely . The public expressed less interest in news about the Wisconsin recall election ( 21 % very closely ) , European economic problems ( 18 % ) and the CIA killing of an al Qaeda leader in a drone strike in Pakistan ( 16 % ) .
Roughly three-in-four Indians ( 77 % ) say they are very or somewhat concerned about people being exposed to false or incorrect information when they use their mobile phones , including 45 % who are very concerned . Similar shares of both BJP and Congress supporters say they are very concerned . This finding comes amid recent violent attacks attributed to viral WhatsApp hoaxes and concerns about the app being used to spread fake news .
One-in-ten ( 10 % ) say news about the situation in Afghanistan was their top story ; 22 % say they followed news about Afghanistan very closely . This news accounted for 5 % of coverage . Smaller numbers cite the financial crisis and protests in Greece ( 4 % ) or the Supreme Court ruling that overturned a California ban on selling violent videogames to minors ( 3 % ) as their top story . Just 14 % say they followed news about the Greek protests very closely , while 13 % say they followed news about the court ruling this closely . Two weeks ago , the same number said they were following the court 's decision dismissing a class action lawsuit against Wal-Mart very closely . The protests in Greece made up 3 % of coverage , while the Supreme Court ruling accounted for 2 % .
In the face of unprecedented measures to limit social contact at work , at school and on the main streets of communities across the nation , Americans give themselves good marks , with 86 % saying people in their households are `` reacting about right . '' Most also say their local school system is reacting about right ( 86 % ) , and majorities say the same about their local ( 74 % ) or state ( 72 % ) government .
Indeed , Pew Research Center polling consistently shows that blacks and whites have very different views about many aspects of race — from confidence in the police to progress on racial equality . For example , 48 % of whites said a lot of progress has been made compared with 32 % of blacks , according to a 2013 survey conducted just before the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King 's March on Washington . The divide widens further when the question is : How much more needs to be done in order to achieve racial equality ? About eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) blacks say `` a lot '' compared with just 44 % of whites . When asked specifically about confidence in police to not use excessive force on suspects , 36 % of whites express a great deal of confidence compared with 18 % of blacks . Conversely , 40 % of blacks express very little confidence in the police on this score compared with 11 % of whites who see things this way . And when people of both races are asked about their confidence in police around the country to treat people of both races equally , 35 % of whites express great confidence compared with 17 % of blacks . About half ( 46 % ) of blacks express very little confidence compared with just 12 % of whites . On this measure too , the disparate opinions of whites and blacks have remained consistent over time .
The Japanese public 's reluctance to endorse the use of military force can also be seen in their concern about how to defeat terrorism around the world . Nearly seven-in-ten Japanese ( 69 % ) see ISIS as a major threat . Yet roughly eight-in-ten ( 79 % ) believe that relying too much on military force will create hatred that leads to more terrorism . Only 14 % back using overwhelming military force as the best way to defeat international terrorism .
However , even if space travel does become commonplace , more than half of Americans ( 58 % ) say they would not be interested in going . People who are n't interested in orbiting the Earth in a spacecraft cite a number of concerns , including thinking it would be too expensive or scary or that their health or age would not allow for safe travel . Among the 42 % who would be interested , the most common reason is that they want to experience something unique .
In a campaign season profoundly disrupted by the coronavirus pandemic , about half of U.S. adults say they are fairly closely or very closely following news about the candidates for the 2020 presidential election . That is somewhat smaller than the share who were following news about the presidential candidates a few months ago , and substantially smaller than the share now following news about the COVID-19 outbreak .
The big economic news story last week was the buyout of Wall Street investment bank Bear Stearns by J.P. Morgan Chase with the financial backing of the Federal Reserve . Almost half of the public said that they followed news about the buyout either very closely ( 21 % ) or fairly closely ( 26 % ) , but the story attracted far less interest than the condition of the U.S. economy in general ( 78 % very or fairly closely ) . Those in the top income tiers paid closer attention to news about the Bear Stearns buyout than did those with lower annual incomes . Among those earning $ 75,000 annually , 27 % reported following this story very closely compared to 17 % of those earning between $ 30,000 and $ 49,999 and 16 % of those earning less than $ 30,000 . Income differences do not affect the level of attention paid to the condition of the U.S. economy in general . One-in Three Americans ( 34 % ) paid very close attention to news about the presidential campaign and roughly the same proportion ( 32 % ) listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . Republicans and Democrats followed campaign news equally closely last week . Coverage of the campaign well surpassed all other major stories . Campaign coverage accounted for 39 % of the newshole and was particularly dominant on cable news television , where the campaign made up three-quarters ( 73 % ) of all news . The Iraq war was the public 's third most closely followed story last week ( 11 % called it their top story ) . Three-in-ten continue to follow news about the situation in Iraq very closely , generally unchanged from recent surveys . Public interest in the Iraq policy debate , which was back in the news last week largely because of the 5th anniversary of the war , was unchanged from its level in early December . One-in-five ( 21 % ) followed the Iraq policy debate very closely and 3 % said this was the story they followed most closely . The national news media devoted 3 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq and 5 % to the Iraq policy debate . There was relatively little public interest in violent protests in Tibet against the Chinese government . Overall , just 12 % say they paid very close attention to this story , roughly equal to the number who followed the news about pro-democracy protests in Burma last fall ( 13 % followed Burma very closely ) . Just 4 % listed violence in Tibet as their most closely followed story while , for the national news media , stories about China and Tibet were the third biggest news story of the week accounting for 4 % of total coverage .
Indeed , while roughly four-in-ten Israeli Jews ( 42 % ) said that the continued building of settlements helps the security of Israel , three-in-ten ( 30 % ) said the settlements hurt the country 's security , while a quarter ( 25 % ) said they do not affect Israel 's security one way or another . Roughly a year earlier , Israeli Jews were less sanguine about the benefits of settlement building : In 2013 , only 31 % said such construction improved Israel 's security .
There 's more agreement , however , when it comes to information from the Chinese government : 84 % of Americans say they place not too much or no trust in information from Beijing regarding the coronavirus outbreak . Many also believe the current crisis will have a long-term impact on China 's global stature : 50 % say China will have less influence in world affairs after the pandemic . As a March Pew Research Center survey found , overall negative attitudes toward China have been on the rise – 66 % of Americans expressed an unfavorable opinion of China , the most negative rating for the country since the Center began asking the question in 2005 .
Americans generally like unions and broadly support the right of workers to unionize . A majority ( 55 % ) holds a favorable view of unions , versus 33 % who hold an unfavorable view , according to the 2018 Center survey mentioned above . In a 2015 survey , large majorities said manufacturing and factory workers ( 82 % ) , public transportation workers ( 74 % ) , police and firefighters ( 72 % ) and public school teachers ( 71 % ) should have the right to unionize . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) said fast-food workers should be able to unionize , while 35 % were opposed .
Recent years saw housing prices rise from a median sales price of $ 165,000 in 2002 to $ 221,900 in 2006 , according to the National Association of Realtors . Early 2007 , however , saw a drop . In January , the median sales price for homes in the United States ( including condominiums ) was $ 210,900 , off $ 11,000 from the 2006 median . By April , the monthly median had climbed to $ 220,900 . ( Figures are not adjusted for inflation . ) Walter Molony , a spokesman for NAR , noted that sales in early 2007 have been stronger in lower-priced regions ( e.g . Texas ) and slower in higher-priced regions ( e.g . California , Florida ) , thereby dragging down the median figure .
About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) offer a variation on this theme – greed , oil companies or speculation – when asked what they think is the main reason gasoline prices have gone up recently , according to a Pew Research Center/Washington Post survey conducted April 28-May 1 among 1,006 adults . Roughly two-in-ten ( 19 % ) cite the ongoing wars or unrest in Libya and elsewhere in the Middle East as the top reason for rising fuel prices . Another 14 % attribute this to politics or national policies .
Among the publics included in this survey , there is a widely held view that China acts unilaterally in international affairs . Majorities in 14 of 23 countries say that China does not take into account the interests of countries like theirs when making foreign policy decisions . This view is prevalent in the U.S. and among EU nations — more than seven-in-ten in France , Spain and Britain , and somewhat smaller majorities in Poland , the U.S. and Germany , think China generally ignores their interests . Majorities in the Middle East also agree with this perspective .
White Democrats ( 83 % ) are far more likely than either black Democrats ( 47 % ) or Hispanic Democrats ( 57 % ) to describe Sanders ' views as liberal . Larger shares of black ( 23 % ) and Hispanic Democrats ( 18 % ) than white Democrats ( 10 % ) say they are not sure how to describe Sanders ' political views . When it comes to views of Biden 's ideology , differences in views by race and ethnicity are more modest than in views of Sanders . However , white Democrats ( 37 % ) are more likely than black Democrats ( 24 % ) or Hispanic Democrats ( 22 % ) to view him as moderate . As with views of Sanders , a larger share of black and Hispanic than white Democrats say they are n't sure how to describe Biden 's political views . ( These patterns hold even among those who follow political and election news very or somewhat closely . ) Majorities of Democrats across age groups view Sanders as liberal , with relatively modest differences from one age group to the next – the exception being Democrats ages 65 and older , who overwhelmingly say Sanders is liberal ( 81 % ) . However , there is an age gap in views of Biden : Nearly half of Democrats 65 and older ( 45 % ) say Biden 's views are moderate , while 31 % say he is liberal and just 13 % call him conservative . Among Democrats ages 18 to 29 , by contrast , nearly as many describe Biden 's views as conservative ( 28 % ) as liberal ( 31 % ) , while 20 % view him as moderate .
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi 's job rating is somewhat more negative than positive : 40 % approve of her job performance while 46 % disapprove . Still , Pelosi 's job rating is more positive than then-Speaker Paul Ryan 's was two years ago . At similar points during their tenures as speaker , John Boehner and Newt Gingrich had evenly divided job ratings .
The new wave of the panel survey was conducted Sept. 9-Oct. 3 with 3,154 adults who are part of the Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel , a nationally representative group of randomly selected U.S. adults surveyed online and by mail . These respondents are a subset of the more than 10,000 adults interviewed earlier this year as part of a year-long series of reports on political polarization in the American public . Those who are consistently conservative and liberal , who together make up only about one-in-five ( 22 % ) in the general public , make up 36 % of those most likely to vote . By contrast , those with mixed opinions will be only 24 % of the electorate , although they constitute 39 % of the general public . ( Click here for details about how ideological consistency is measured . ) Although overall turnout among the public is likely to be around 40 % , 73 % of those who hold consistently conservative attitudes are likely to vote in the midterm , as are 52 % of those with mostly conservative views . As other surveys have found , voters on the left are less politically engaged in this election : 58 % of those with consistently liberal views and just 32 % of those with mostly liberal attitudes are likely to turn out . And among those with about an equal mix of conservative and liberal attitudes , just 25 % are likely to go to the polls .
Almost two-thirds of the global Somali diaspora live in neighboring countries . At nearly half a million , Kenya hosts the largest number of Somali migrants ( both refugees and nonrefugees ) of any other country , according to UN estimates . Not far behind is Ethiopia with 440,000 Somali migrants . Combining Kenya , Ethiopia , Djibouti and Yemen ( across the Gulf of Aden ) , nearly two-thirds of the world 's Somali migrants lived in neighboring countries in 2015 . At the same time , Somalis have become increasingly dispersed across the world . In 1990 , an estimated 90 % of Somali migrants lived in the four nations near Somalia , a share that dropped to 64 % by 2015 . The U.S. Somali immigrant community continues to grow . Estimates from the United Nations indicate that the total number living in the U.S. was around 2,500 in 1990 , but had grown to between 140,000 and 150,000 by 2015 . In all , the U.S. is home to about 7 % of the world 's Somali migrant population . Between fiscal years 2001 and 2015 , the U.S. admitted more than 90,000 refugees from Somalia , according to the U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement . This refugee flow continues today , with nearly 9,000 refugees from Somalia entering the U.S. in fiscal 2015 . The U.S. also approved 1,645 green cards in 2014 for Somalis sponsored by U.S. citizen immediate family members , according to the Department of Homeland Security .
Overall , 40 % of Hispanic adults think Trump will be a poor or terrible president while 28 % say he will be an average president and 22 % say he will be a good or great president . But there are sharp divides by political party . About half ( 53 % ) of Hispanic Republicans say Trump will be a good or great president . By comparison , Hispanic Democrats hold the opposite view : 58 % say Trump will be a poor or terrible president .
For the first time since the Pew Research Center 's Internet & American Life Project began systematically tracking smartphone adoption , a majority of Americans now own a smartphone of some kind . Our definition of a smartphone owner includes anyone who says `` yes '' to one—or both—of the following questions : Taken together , 61 % of cell owners said yes to at least one of these questions and are classified as smartphone owners . Because 91 % of the adult population now owns some kind of cell phone , that means that 56 % of all American adults are now smartphone adopters . One third ( 35 % ) have some other kind of cell phone that is not a smartphone , and the remaining 9 % of Americans do not own a cell phone at all .
Within the GOP , moderates and liberals ( 74 % ) are more likely than conservatives ( 61 % ) to say an additional aid package will be necessary . And liberal Democrats are slightly more likely than conservative and moderate Democrats to think another bill will be necessary ( 92 % vs. 83 % ) .
As noted earlier , among the challenges confronting their country , Mexicans most frequently name crime ( 80 % ) and cartel-related violence ( 77 % ) as very big problems . Roughly seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) see illegal drugs in the same light . Most ( 69 % ) also describe economic problems as a major challenge . Indeed , when asked specifically about rising prices and lack of job opportunities , majorities ( 74 % and 70 % , respectively ) say these are very big problems in Mexico today . Slightly smaller numbers place corruption ( 65 % ) and terrorism ( 62 % ) in this category , while fewer than six-in-ten ( 56 % ) characterize pollution as a very big problem . Just half say people leaving the country for jobs elsewhere is a major issue .
Obama holds only a four-point edge ( 48 % to 44 % ) across 12 of this year 's key battleground states . While the data does not allow a state-by-state analysis , the overall balance of support in these closely contested states has remained level in recent months , with Obama slightly ahead , but neither candidate holding a significant advantage .
Declines in the shares of Protestants and Catholics have been accompanied by a rising share of the religiously unaffiliated , who accounted for 30 % of Germans in 2010 , up from fewer than 4 % in 1950 . And recent research indicates that the share of Muslims in Germany also has been growing in recent years , due in large part to immigration .
In recent years there has been renewed interest in the debate over journalists ' use of anonymous sources , and this has included criticism directly from President Donald Trump . Survey data from earlier this year shows that most Americans see a place for journalists to use anonymous sources , but few think journalists should have carte blanche to use them when reporting the news . A majority of U.S. adults ( 82 % ) say that there are times when it is acceptable for journalists to use anonymous sources , with 67 % saying it is acceptable only in special cases – a view which echoes the standards of professional journalism organizations that say journalists should take every step to attribute information to a named source when possible before relying on an anonymous source . A much smaller share – 15 % – thinks use of anonymous sources is always acceptable . About two-in-ten Americans ( 18 % ) think it is never acceptable .
Population losses in Puerto Rico have accelerated in recent years , affecting every corner of the island and continuing the largest outmigration in more than 50 years , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of newly released county-level Census Bureau data . Overall , the island 's population was an estimated 3.47 million in 2015 , down 334,000 from 2000 – a 9 % decline . Three-quarters of this population loss has taken place since 2010 . Puerto Rico 's population declined by 7 % from 2010 to 2015 , compared with a 2 % loss from 2000 to 2010 . Population growth was once the norm in Puerto Rico . The island 's population grew by 10 % from 1980 to 1990 , and by 8 % from 1990 to 2000 . But as the effects of a decade-long economic recession have mounted , Puerto Ricans – who are U.S. citizens at birth – have increasingly moved to the U.S. mainland , with many settling in Florida . In addition , fertility on the island has declined in recent years , adding to population loss .
There is evidence that some kind of flat fee – a networked microaccounting system rather than a pay-per-click system — might have better success in marketplace . We asked people if they had to pay for content from their favorite site , would they prefer a subscription that would allow them to access all the content from the site or a pay-as-you-go plan where they would pay only for the articles and features they wanted to see . A substantial majority of those with a favorite site ( 54 % ) opted for the subscription model while less than half as many ( 24 % ) picked the a la carte option .
More American adults consume news on mobile : 64 % of tablet owners and 62 % of smartphone owners said they got news on their devices in 2012 .
But while the U.S and EU have large migrant populations from many parts of the world , the origins of U.S. migrants are less diverse . About a quarter ( 26 % ) of all immigrants in the U.S. come from just one country – Mexico . By contrast , Turkey was the top origin country for EU migrants ( excluding internal migrants ) in 2015 – but its 8 % share does not nearly rival Mexico 's in the U.S .
American women earn 85 cents on the dollar compared with men , but that gap is narrower among younger workers . In 2018 , among workers ages 25 to 34 , women 's earnings were 89 % those of men , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of median hourly wages that includes full- and part-time workers . But evidence suggests that as women enter the responsibilities of parenthood their earnings fall further behind same-aged male counterparts . Several other factors are believed to contribute to the persistence of the gender wage gap , among them the impact of broader family caregiving responsibilities , differences in the industries and occupations in which women and men work , workplace gender discrimination , and differences in workforce experience .
Mail-in voting – often called absentee voting or vote-by-mail – has slowly but steadily gained in popularity in the United States . And it received a big boost this year as primary season ran head-on into the novel coronavirus pandemic . Mail-in ballots accounted for just over half of this year 's primary votes cast in the 37 states ( plus the District of Columbia ) for which data is available . That was roughly double the mail-in share of the vote in those same jurisdictions in the 2018 and 2016 general elections .
In January , there were 1.8 unemployed people per open position , according to the latest Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey ( or JOLTS ) and jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics . While that may sound disheartening , it 's actually well within pre-recession norms : Between January 2005 and December 2007 , the number of unemployed people per opening varied between 1.45 and 2.17 , and averaged 1.68 over the entire three-year period . But once the recession turned from ordinary into `` Great , '' the unemployed-to-openings ratio soared – peaking at 6.8 in July 2009 , a month after the recession 's official end . It 's been trending downward since then as employers have stepped up hiring .
Across different sites , men and women have varying degrees of engagement . Among internet users , women are significantly more likely than men to use Facebook , Pinterest , and Instagram . A roughly equal proportion of men and women use Twitter and Tumblr , respectively . reddit is the only site we 've measured in which men are significantly more likely than women to be users .
Both e-book reader and tablet computer adoption levels among U.S. adults are still well below that of other tech devices that have been on the market longer . Cell phones are far and away the most popular digital device among U.S. adults today , followed by desktop and laptop computers , DVRs , and MP3 players .
Like Muslims elsewhere in Europe , the French also worry more generally about the future of Muslims in their country — though , in this case , Muslims in France are significantly less worried than those in Great Britain . A majority ( 57 % ) is also at least somewhat concerned about the declining importance of religion among their co-religionists in France , though again , British Muslims are more troubled on this score with 73 % sharing the worry . ( In this , as in other questions in the survey , no significant difference is seen among the responses of French Muslims of Algerian , Moroccan or other ethnicity . )
An estimated 500,000 to 700,000 unauthorized immigrants lived in Italy in 2017 , up from 300,000 to 500,000 in 2014 , according to new Pew Research Center estimates based on the latest available data . The 2017 estimate includes 152,000 asylum seekers who were waiting for a decision on their case at the end of that year .
Most U.S. adults on Twitter post only rarely . But a small share of highly active users , most of whom are Democrats , produce the vast majority of tweets . The Center 's analysis finds that just 10 % of users produced 92 % of all tweets from U.S. adults since last November , and that 69 % of these highly prolific users identify as Democrats or Democratic-leaning independents .
One telling sign of the cutbacks is membership in the Association of Opinion Journalists , the organization that represents editorial writers and columnists . In 2006 , before most newspaper downsizing took place , the AOJ had 549 members . Since then , membership has plunged 55 % , to 245 this year .
Among Latino voters , support for Obama was strong among all major demographic sub-groups . Yet some differences were evident . According to the national exit poll , Hispanic women supported Obama more than Hispanic males—76 % versus 65 % .
Even as Americans express greater commitment to solving domestic problems , they voice more hesitancy about global engagement . They also are less disposed than five years ago to favor a strong military as the best way to ensure peace . In 2002 , less than a year after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks , more than six-in-ten agreed with the statement , `` The best way to ensure peace is through military strength . '' Today , about half express similar confidence in military power .
The vast majority of immigrants in the U.S. are in the country legally – but fewer than half of Americans know that 's the case . Lawful immigrants accounted for about three-quarters ( 76 % ) of all immigrants in the U.S. in 2016 . But in a survey conducted in June 2018 , only 45 % of Americans correctly said most immigrants are in the country legally . Around a third of U.S. adults ( 35 % ) incorrectly said that most immigrants are in the country illegally , while 6 % said about half of all immigrants are here illegally and half legally . Another 13 % did not provide a response .
For their part , Democrats are far more concerned that congressional Democrats will not do enough , rather than go too far , to oppose Trump . The latest survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Feb. 7 - 12 among 1,503 adults , shows how members of both parties are coming to grips with Washington 's changed political dynamics : Democrats want their party to challenge Trump . Nearly three-quarters of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 72 % ) say their bigger concern is that congressional Democrats will not do enough to oppose Trump and his policies . Just 20 % say they are more concerned that Democrats in Congress will go too far opposing Trump and his policies .
Nine-in-ten Israeli Druze say they have a strong sense of belonging to the Druze community and about the same number ( 93 % ) say they are proud to be Druze . Roughly two-thirds say they have a special responsibility to take care of Druze in need around the world . About seven-in-ten Druze ( 72 % ) say their religious identity is very important to them . But when asked if their Druze identity is mainly a matter of religion , culture or ancestry – or a combination of these elements – roughly eight-in-ten say being Druze is either essentially about ancestry or culture ( 33 % ) or a combination of religion and ancestry/culture ( 47 % ) . Only about one-in-five say being Druze is primarily a matter of religion ( 18 % ) . By comparison , more Israeli Christians ( 31 % ) and Israeli Muslims ( 45 % ) say being Christian/Muslim is mainly a matter of religion to them .
Today , due in large part to the Holocaust , there are only an estimated 1.4 million Jews remaining in Europe – down from an estimated 9.5 million at the beginning of the war , in 1939 .
Three-in-ten Americans ( 30 % ) say research on GM foods is often based on the best available evidence . An equal share of U.S. adults say desires of scientists to help their industries influence research findings on GM foods most of the time ; half ( 50 % ) of the public says this occurs some of the time . A 2016 report from the National Academies of Sciences , Engineering and Medicine suggests there is consensus among scientific experts that GM foods are safe . However , most Americans perceive considerable disagreement in the scientific community . Only a minority of Americans say that almost all ( 14 % ) or more than half ( 28 % ) of scientists agree that GM foods are safe to eat .
Over the past four years , the demographic makeup of online classified users changed very little . The percentages of demographic groups using online classifieds grew at a rate that mirrors the growth of the total online population using these sites : the percentage of all internet users to utilize classified sites grew 27 percentage points from 2005 to 2009 , while most other demographic groups ' growth ranged from 25 to 29 percentage points . The exception to this pattern involves different generational use of classified sites . Online 18 - 29 year olds saw a 30 percentage-point increase in their use of online classified ads , and 30 - 49 year old internet users marked a 32 point increase in online classifieds use . On the other hand , internet users ages 50 - 64 saw a 21 point increase , and online seniors ( age 65+ ) saw the smallest increase overall : 13 percentage points .
A median of 47 % across the 38 countries surveyed have a favorable opinion of China , while 37 % express an unfavorable view . Majorities or pluralities in 24 countries give China a positive rating .
The six-party talks on North Korea – involving the United States , South Korea , North Korea , China , Japan and Russia – slated to begin Aug. 27 in Beijing reflect global public concern that the regime in Pyongyang poses a serious threat to Asian stability . But U.S. efforts to defuse the North Korean crisis take place against a backdrop of rising anti-Americanism in South Korea and occur at a time when fewer South Koreans show concern about the threat posed by their northern neighbor than do Americans , Australians and many Europeans .
In fiscal 2016 , which ended Sept. 30 , the U.S. resettled nearly 85,000 refugees within its borders , the most since 1999 . As in Europe , there has been much discussion in the U.S. about which refugees should be admitted , both in terms of their origins and their religious affiliations . The U.S. has seen a shift in the origins of refugees , with most in recent years coming from Asia , Africa and the Middle East . During the 1990s , most were from Europe . At the same time , a record number of U.S. refugees in fiscal 2016 were Muslim , with most coming from Syria and Somalia . Refugees are resettled all over the U.S. , but more than half ( 54 % ) were resettled in just 10 states .
Survey experiments also allow researchers to measure how much context matters when asking a question . In an early 2018 survey , researchers asked one group of respondents whether the U.S. Senate should have two seats for every state , regardless of how many people live in the state . A second group of respondents received the same question but were given some additional context – specifically , that the population difference between the nation 's largest and smallest states had grown dramatically over time .
6 '' Angry '' Republicans view Jeb Bush less favorably than several other GOP candidates . Among the nearly one-third of Republicans and leaners who say they are angry with government , about six-in-ten or more say they have favorable views of Ben Carson , Marco Rubio , Donald Trump and Ted Cruz . However , just 36 % of Republicans who express anger toward government view Jeb Bush favorably , while 57 % express an unfavorable opinion of him .
In recent years , the fastest Latino population growth has tended to come in areas with a relatively small number of Latinos . Three counties in North Dakota had the fastest growth in Latino population from 2007 to 2014 . During this time , North Dakota added thousands of workers thanks to a boom in Bakken shale oil production . This Hispanic population surge may be a shift away from the South , which had eight of the 10 fastest-growing Hispanic county populations from 2000 to 2007 . Even so , the South remains the largest source of growth , accounting for 43 % of U.S. Hispanic population growth from 2007 to 2014 .
Democratic registered voters in the United States have a positive view of the field of candidates vying for their party 's presidential nomination , and they generally agree with each other on issues ranging from gun laws to climate change , according to a January Pew Research Center survey .
Only about a fifth of India 's roughly 1.2 billion people are online , according to a recent Pew Research Center report , and the world 's biggest technology companies are clamoring for this large , untapped user base . Facebook recently tried ( and failed ) to implement its `` Free Basics '' internet program , and Google is also vying for the vast Indian internet market . India lags behind other emerging nations in internet access and smartphone ownership . Across the 21 emerging and developing nations surveyed in 2015 ( including India ) , a median of 54 % have internet access and 37 % own smartphones . In India , however , only 22 % have internet access and only 17 % have a smartphone .
About half of the public ( 54 % ) says they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy these days , while 41 % say they are hearing mostly bad news .
Americans are more likely than ever to get news from multiple social media sites , according to a recent Pew Research Center report . About a quarter of all U.S. adults ( 26 % ) get news from two or more social media sites , up from 15 % in 2013 and 18 % in 2016 . But there is considerable variation in the extent to which each site 's news users get news from other sites , and which sites those are .
Two-thirds of Americans favor marijuana legalization , reflecting a steady increase in public support , according to a September 2019 Pew Research Center survey . Public opinion on marijuana legalization was essentially the opposite nearly two decades ago : In 2000 , 63 % said the use of marijuana should be illegal . Views of marijuana legalization differ by generation and political party , though support has increased across demographic groups over time . Majorities of Millennials ( those born between 1981 and 1997 ) , Gen Xers ( born between 1965 and 1980 ) and Baby Boomers ( born between 1946 and 1964 ) say the use of marijuana should be legal , up sharply from a decade ago . And while a smaller share of the Silent Generation ( born between 1928 and 1945 ) currently favors legalization , support among these Americans has also increased . Few Americans say marijuana should be illegal under all circumstances . In the fall 2019 survey , 59 % of U.S. adults said marijuana should be legal for recreational and medical purposes , while another 32 % said it should be legal for medical use only . Just 8 % said the drug should not be legal .
A quarter of Americans ( 25 % ) followed news about the health care debate more closely than any other news story this week , while about as many ( 24 % ) cited reports about the swine flu and the vaccine as their top story . This marks the first time since mid-July that health care reform has not clearly been the public 's top story . At that time , the death of Michael Jackson was the most closely followed story . In terms of news coverage for the week , the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan was the top story , accounting of 20 % of all coverage , according to separate analysis by the Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . By contrast , 10 % of coverage was devoted to the health care debate and 5 % for swine flu during the week of Oct. 5 - 11 , according to PEJ .
The long-term shift in the public 's views about same-sex marriage is unambiguous . Polling conducted in 2003 found most Americans ( 58 % ) opposed to allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally , and just a third ( 33 % ) in favor . The new survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted March 13 - 17 , 2013 among 1,501 adults nationwide , confirms that these figures have crossed , with 49 % supporting same-sex marriage , and 44 % opposed . To better understand this change , the new survey asked supporters of same-sex marriage if they have always held this view or if they have changed their mind on this issue . More than a quarter of same-sex marriage proponents ( 28 % ) say their views have changed . This represents 14 % of the American public overall . By comparison , virtually everyone who opposes same-sex marriage – 41 % out of 44 % – say they have always been against it .
Few `` Green Shoots '' Evident . Public views about the economy remain quite negative . Just 11 % say the nation 's economy is excellent or good , and only 16 % say jobs are plentiful in their community . Still , more expect economic conditions to be better a year from now than did so in December ( 34 % now , 28 % then ) . Congress at Record Low . Just 23 % express favorable opinion of Congress , among the lowest measures ever in a Pew Research Center survey . House Speaker John Boehner and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid are increasingly unpopular among members of their own parties .
An estimated 381,000 Hispanics of Nicaraguan origin resided in the United States in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Nicaraguans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Nicaraguan origin ; this means either they themselves are Nicaraguan immigrants or they trace their family ancestry to Nicaragua . Nicaraguans are the 12th-largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 0.7 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2013 . Since 1990 , the Nicaraguan-origin population nearly doubled , growing from 203,000 to 381,000 over the period . At the same time , the foreign-born population of Nicaraguan origin living in the U.S. grew by 35 % , up from 164,000 in 1990 to 222,000 in 2013 . In comparison , Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , constituted 34.6 million , or 64.1 % , of the Hispanic population in 2013 .
Whether Peña Nieto or any of the other presidential candidates have a solution to Mexico 's drug problems is an open question for the Mexican public . When asked which political party could do a better job of dealing with organized crime and drug traffickers , about equal numbers name Calderón 's National Action Party ( PAN ) ( 28 % ) and Peña Nieto 's PRI ( 25 % ) , while only 13 % point to the Party of the Democratic Revolution ( PRD ) . Fully 23 % volunteer that none of the parties is particularly capable of dealing with this critical issue .
The British want to stay in the EU . The United Kingdom intends to hold a referendum on continued membership in the European Union no later than the end of 2017 . While a topic of heated debate in British political and policy circles , the British public 's enthusiasm for leaving the EU has been declining since 2013 . That year , the British were evenly split on the issue , with 46 % wanting to stay and 46 % to leave . In this year 's Pew Research survey , 55 % of Brits say they want to remain in the EU , while just 36 % voice the desire to go .
Despite mixed assessments of scientists working on genetic modification , six-in-ten U.S. adults ( 60 % ) say scientists should have a major role in policy issues related to GM foods and 28 % say they should have a minor role . Similar shares of Americans say that small farm owners and the general public should have a major role in GM food policy . A smaller share of Americans says that food industry leaders ( 42 % ) or elected officials ( 24 % ) should have a major role in policy decisions about GM foods .
Wealth inequality is even greater than income inequality . NYU economist Edward Wolff has found that , while the highest-earning fifth of U.S. families earned 59.1 % of all income , the richest fifth held 88.9 % of all wealth .
A 2015 Pew Research Center survey found that nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) believe it is unacceptable for the government to monitor the communications of American citizens . But the survey found that around half of Americans say it is acceptable for the U.S. government to monitor the communications of citizens of other countries .
News diets differ drastically for younger and older Americans . Age gaps that have long been notable have now widened substantially , with those 65 and older five times as likely as 18- to 29-year-olds to often get news from TV . A large majority of those 65 and older ( 81 % ) get news from television often , as do about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those 50 to 64 . Far fewer young Americans are turning to television news , however – only 16 % of those 18 to 29 and 36 % of those 30 to 49 get news often from television .
Today 's mothers have more education than ever before , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Census data . About two-thirds of new mothers in 2011 had at least some college education , reflecting a decades-long rise in the educational levels of all women .
Germans give the U.S. some of its worst ratings in the survey . Only 26 % have a positive view of America , while just 10 % have confidence in Trump when it comes to his handling of world affairs . These opinions are in stark contrast to the very favorable assessments Germans had during Barack Obama 's presidency , but roughly on par with views at the end of George W. Bush 's tenure .
Among Millennials who moved in 2016 , 22 % owned their own home after their move . In contrast , earlier generations of young movers were more likely to move into homes that they owned . For example , 35 % of early Boomer 25- to 35-year-olds who moved in the year prior to 1981 lived in an owner-occupied home .
Among Democrats , there are sizable educational differences over the main cause of global warming . Fully 86 % of Democrats with college degrees say that the earth is warming and this is mostly due to human activity . Among Democrats with less education , 57 % express this view . By contrast , similar percentages of Republican college graduates ( 28 % ) and those who do not have a college degree ( 23 % ) say that human activity is mostly responsible for global warming .
A Pew Global Attitudes Project survey conducted this spring found 43 % of British Muslims `` very concerned '' about the rise of Islamic extremism among Muslims living in that country . That 's twice the proportion that expressed similar fears in Spain ( 21 % ) and significantly more than in Germany ( 23 % ) or France ( 26 % ) .
Public support for trade and multinational corporations and the lack of enthusiasm for protesters does not mean that people necessarily reject critics ' concerns . Majorities , in most cases strong majorities , in 34 of 44 nations thought the availability of good paying jobs had gotten worse in the last five years . And substantial majorities–82 % in France , 67 % in the United States , 63 % in Mexico–thought the gap between the rich and the poor had worsened . But , unlike trade 's critics , the public did not blame globalization for these problems . People attributed such difficulties to domestic factors .
Government harassment and use of force against members of religious groups surged around the world in 2015 , according to a new Pew Research Center study on global religious restrictions . But nowhere was this trend more pronounced than in Europe , where over half of countries ( 53 % ) saw an increase from the previous year . More specifically , governments of 38 European countries ( 84 % ) harassed religious groups in limited or widespread ways in 2015 , while the governments of 24 countries in Europe ( 53 % ) used some type of force against religious groups . In addition to recording the biggest increase in government harassment and use of force against religious groups , Europe also had the second-largest overall share of countries ( 89 % ) that exhibited these types of actions . Only the Middle East-North Africa region ( 95 % ) had more governments that harassed or used force against religious groups . Sub-Saharan Africa , the Americas and the Asia-Pacific region had lower shares of government harassment or use of force against religious groups , although over seven-in-ten countries in each region had these types of government restrictions .
The American public is closely divided over the degree of health risk posed by additives present in the foods we regularly eat . Majorities see at least some risk from eating food produced with common agricultural and processing practices , including meat from animals given hormones or antibiotics , produce grown with pesticides and foods with artificial ingredients . And about half of the public says that foods with genetically modified ( GM ) ingredients are worse for one 's health than foods without , according to a new nationally representative survey from Pew Research Center . Seven-in-ten Americans ( 70 % ) believe that science has had a mostly positive effect on the quality of food in the United States . But when asked about one area where new developments in biotechnology are changing the possibilities for how we grow and consume foods , the public is closely divided . Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) believe that foods with GM ingredients are worse for one 's health than non-GM foods , while 44 % say such foods are neither better nor worse and 5 % say they are better for one 's health .
For example , in Sweden , the Netherlands and Germany , all of which have a per-capita gross domestic product over $ 50,000 , acceptance of homosexuality is among the highest measured across the 34 countries surveyed . By contrast , in Nigeria , Kenya and Ukraine , where per-capita GDP is under $ 10,000 , less than two-in-ten say that homosexuality should be accepted by society . The 2019 survey shows that while majorities in 16 of the 34 countries surveyed say homosexuality should be accepted by society , global divides remain . Whereas 94 % of those surveyed in Sweden say homosexuality should be accepted , only 7 % of people in Nigeria say the same . Across the 34 countries surveyed , a median of 52 % agree that homosexuality should be accepted with 38 % saying that it should be discouraged . But in sub-Saharan Africa , the Middle East , Russia and Ukraine , few say that society should accept homosexuality ; only in South Africa ( 54 % ) and Israel ( 47 % ) do more than a quarter hold this view .
Recent survey data from the Pew Research Center suggest that there is a sharp divide between younger and older blacks on the issue of police searches . Older blacks ( those ages 60 and older ) are evenly split when it comes to what tactics the police should use in pursuing crime suspects . Some 46 % say the police should be allowed to stop and search anyone who fits the general description of a crime suspect , while roughly the same share ( 50 % ) say the police should not be able to search people just because they think they look suspicious .
Four-in-ten ( 41 % ) Twitter users who are very interested in politics say that at least half of the posts that they see are political . This compares with about a quarter ( 26 % ) of highly politically-interested Facebook users who say the same .
A majority ( 56 % ) of moderate non-Tea Party Republicans say the party 's position on gay marriage is too conservative . That compares with just 22 % of Tea Party Republicans and 21 % of GOP conservatives who do not agree with the Tea Party . Among the latter groups , more say the party 's stance on gay marriage is not conservative enough ( 35 % of Tea Party , 34 % of non-Tea conservatives ) than say it is too conservative .
Over the past four years , the shift in party identification has occurred almost entirely among white voters . The Republican Party now has a 12-point advantage over Democrats among non-Hispanic white voters : 52 % identify with or lean toward the Republican Party while 40 % identify with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic . In 2008 , the balance of party identification among whites was almost evenly divided ( 46 % Republican vs. 44 % Democrat ) . The Democratic Party 's advantage among blacks and Hispanics , by comparison , has remained largely unchanged .
Four decades after the birth of Louise Brown , the first `` test-tube baby '' conceived via in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) , 33 % of American adults report that they or someone they know has used some type of fertility treatment in order to try to have a baby , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The share of people who say they have undergone a fertility treatment or know someone who has varies markedly by education and income . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of those with a bachelor 's degree have had some exposure to fertility treatment – either through their own experience or that of someone they know – and the share rises to 56 % among those with a postgraduate degree . About half ( 48 % ) of people with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more also have been exposed to fertility treatment . ( The survey did not specify what type of treatment . ) Whites are more likely than blacks or Hispanics to report that they have undergone a fertility treatment or know someone who has ( 37 % vs. 22 % and 26 % , respectively ) , and women are more likely than men to say the same ( 36 % vs. 30 % ) .
Belief in the free market tends to be highest in developing countries ( median of 71 % ) . Nearly two-thirds or more in all nine of the developing economies surveyed agree that most people benefit from capitalism , including 80 % of Bangladeshis , 75 % of Ghanaians and 74 % of Kenyans . Publics in emerging markets also generally support the free market . More than half in 21 of the 25 countries surveyed agree that most people are better off in a free market system even if there is some inequality , including roughly three-quarters or more in Vietnam , China , Nigeria , Turkey , Malaysia and the Philippines . Support is much lower in Colombia , Jordan , Mexico and Argentina . Argentines are the least likely to see the benefits of capitalism among all 44 countries surveyed .
While Americans support increased government spending in a number of areas , they continue to be divided in preferences regarding the overall size of government : 47 % say they would rather have a smaller government with fewer services , while an identical share prefers a bigger government with more services . These views have changed little since 2017 , but for several years prior to that , more Americans preferred smaller government to bigger government .
For example , 58 % of Biden supporters say they would prefer to vote by mail in November , but Biden voters who are Black are much less likely than other Biden voters to say this – just 38 % express a preference for mail voting ( 33 % say they would prefer to vote in person on Election Day and 25 % prefer to vote early in person ) . By comparison , clear majorities of White ( 65 % ) and Hispanic ( 58 % ) Biden voters say they would prefer to vote by mail .
About one-in-four adults ( 26 % ) closely followed news about the economy last week , while an equal share closely followed news about how the rollout of the 2010 health care law was going . A smaller percentage of the public — 17 % —closely followed negotiations about a new budget deal in Congress . A week after the death of former South African President Nelson Mandela , one-in-five ( 20 % ) very closely followed his memorial service and other news about his death . Fully 54 % of non-Hispanic blacks followed news about Mandela very closely last week , compared with 14 % of non-Hispanic whites .
An overwhelming 86 % of Germans believe their economy is doing well , up from 75 % last year , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in spring . Views of the economy have been consistently positive since 2011 , reflecting Germany 's quick recovery from the global financial crisis . By comparison , just 2 % of Greeks , 15 % of Italians , 21 % of French and 28 % of Spanish say their economies are doing well .
Post-breakup , girls are more likely to erase their ex from their social media lives . Some 44 % of teen girls with dating experience have blocked or unfriended an ex on social media , compared with 31 % of boys . Girls who date ( 46 % ) are also more likely than boys ( 30 % ) to delete or untag photos from a previous relationship .
Currently , 51 % of voters in this age group affiliate with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic compared with 39 % who describe themselves as Republicans or lean toward the GOP . Thus voters in Gen X and the latter part of the Baby Boom — the most Republican age cohort four years ago — now are about as Democratic as are older age groups , the early Baby Boomers and the so-called Silent Generation .
The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Nov. 30-Dec. 5 among 1,502 adults , finds that 45 % expect Obama to be remembered as an above average or outstanding president , while 26 % expect he will be viewed as average , and about as many ( 27 % ) say he 'll be seen as a below average or poor president . Obama fares well when compared with past presidents . Expectations for Obama 's historical record are far more positive than those of George W. Bush at the end of his term ( when 57 % predicted that he would be remembered as a below average or poor president ) , and are roughly on par with views of Bill Clinton when he left office .
Mexicans are a majority of unauthorized immigrants ( 52 % in 2012 ) , but both their numbers and share have declined in recent years , according to the Pew Research estimates . Although the U.S. population of unauthorized immigrants was stable from 2009 to 2012 , the number of Mexicans in this population fell by about half a million people during those years . According to the new Pew Research Center estimates , there were 5.9 million Mexican unauthorized immigrants in 2012 , compared with 6.4 million in 2009 . The decline likely resulted from both an increase in departures to Mexico and a decrease in arrivals from Mexico .
Strong growth in Hispanic enrollment is expected to continue for decades , according to a recently released U.S. Census Bureau population projection . The bureau projects that the Hispanic school-age population will increase by 166 % by 2050 ( to 28 million from 11 million in 2006 ) , while the non-Hispanic school-age population will grow by just 4 % ( to 45 million from 43 million ) over this same period .1 In 2050 , there will be more school-age Hispanic children than school-age non-Hispanic white children .
Over the past two decades , public support for capital punishment has declined substantially in the U.S. , as have death sentences and executions . But in the Center 's most recent survey on the death penalty – conducted this past April and May – support was up slightly : A narrow majority of Americans ( 54 % ) said they favored the death penalty for people convicted of murder , up from 49 % in 2016 . Partisans were sharply divided : Around three-quarters of Republicans ( 77 % ) supported the death penalty for those convicted of murder , while a majority of Democrats ( 59 % ) opposed it . Independents were more inclined to support the death penalty than oppose it ( 52 % versus 40 % ) .
Fewer Republicans say Trump is obligated to release his tax returns . Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) say Trump has a responsibility to publicly release his tax returns , which is little changed from a year ago ( 60 % ) . However , fewer Republicans say Trump needs to release his returns than did so last year ( 28 % now , 38 % then ) . Democrats continue to overwhelmingly say Trump has an obligation to release his taxes ( 80 % say this ) .
Since then , overall support for marijuana legalization has increased across all three of these generations . But the patterns are somewhat different for each . Among Boomers , support for marijuana legalization now surpasses levels from when they were young ( 50 % today vs. 43 % in 1973 ) . But among Silents , support remains far lower compared to other generations : Their support for legal marijuana has been low since the question was first asked in 1969 ( when they were then 24 - 41 ) , and today just 29 % say it should be legal . Among Gen Xers , who came of age in a period of little support for legalization , support has more than doubled since their youth ( 52 % say its use should be legal today , compared to 21 % in 1990 ) .
In a fall 2018 survey , 69 % of Americans favored allowing people convicted of felonies to vote after serving their sentences . Black adults were much more likely than white adults to somewhat or strongly favor this approach ( 83 % vs. 68 % ) .
Currently , more Democrats ( 63 % ) than Republicans ( 54 % ) have a favorable impression of the Roberts court , though the gap has narrowed considerably since July 2012 . At that time , shortly after the court upheld most of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act , 64 % of Democrats viewed the court favorably compared with just 38 % of Republicans .
56 % — Percentage of unmarried gay men in America who say they 'd like to get married someday . 58 % — Percentage of unmarried U.S. lesbians who say they would . 45 % — Percentage of unmarried bisexuals who say they would .
A majority of rural residents perceive an urban-rural divide over values . About six-in-ten rural residents ( 58 % ) say the values of urban dwellers are very or somewhat different from theirs , while about half ( 53 % ) of urban residents say those in rural areas have values that do n't align with theirs .
Women 's views about how well mothers are doing their job have changed little over the past 10 years . In a 1997 Pew Research Center survey of women , a majority ( 56 % ) said that mothers of children under age 18 were doing a worse job as parents than mothers did 20 or 30 years ago ; in the current survey , 54 % of women express this view .
A survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press and the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life , conducted Nov. 9 - 14 , 2011 , among 2,001 adults , finds that 62 % favor the death penalty for people convicted of murder while 31 % are opposed . That is generally in line with polling on the death penalty over the past several years .
Those who have been harassed by someone they know are also more likely to turn to others for support : 55 % sought out some type of help or support during their most recent indident , compared with 31 % of those who were harassed by a stranger or somone anonymous . This group is especially likely to turn to other friends or family members for support : 39 % did so after their most recent encounter , compared with 16 % of those whose harasser was unknown to them .
Gen Xers are bookended by two much larger generations – the Baby Boomers ahead and the Millennials behind – that are strikingly different from one another . And in most of the ways we take stock of generations – their racial and ethnic makeup ; their political , social and religious values ; their economic and educational circumstances ; their technology usage – Gen Xers are a low-slung , straight-line bridge between two noisy behemoths . To be fair , there are a few metrics that do n't fit this straightforward pattern of generational evolution . For example , over the course of their voting lives , older Gen Xers have tended to be more Republican than both older Boomers and younger Millennials . Also , Xers are more pessimistic than both of those larger generations that they 'll have enough money for their retirement – though some of that negativity is doubtless tied to the economic stresses of middle age . Gen Xers also stand out in another way . In 2010 when Pew Research asked adults of all ages if they thought their own generation was unique , about six-in-ten Boomers and Millennials said yes . But only about half of Gen Xers said the same . And even among those who did , there was very little consensus about why they are distinctive .
Fewer Mexicans are migrating to the U.S. today than in the past . In fact , more Mexicans left than came to the U.S since the end of the Great Recession . Between 2009 and 2014 , 870,000 Mexican nationals left Mexico to come to the U.S. , down from the 2.9 million who left Mexico for the U.S. between 1995 and 2000 . Of those moving back to Mexico , many cite family as the reason for their return . About 1 million Mexican immigrants and their U.S.-born children moved from the U.S. to Mexico between 2009 and 2014 , and 61 % said they had done so to reunite with family or to start a family , according to the 2014 Mexican National Survey of Demographic Dynamics .
Most Americans feel the press has gone overboard in covering the death of Anna Nicole Smith . Fully 61 % believe the Smith story has been overcovered , far more than the number saying that about any other recent story . Even so , a sizable minority ( 11 % ) followed Smith 's death more closely than any of last week 's other top stories . This is on par with the number who cited news about the 2008 presidential candidates ( 13 % ) or the Super Bowl ( 11 % ) as the stories they followed most closely . The war in Iraq was the top story for the week of Feb. 5 , with 30 % following it most closely . Data collected since the start of the year suggest that the public and the press are often in agreement about the most important news stories of the day . The Iraq war has consistently been the top-ranked news story both in terms of public interest and press coverage . In the News Interest Index survey for the week of Feb. 5 ( conducted Feb. 9 - 12 ) , 30 % of Americans said the situation in Iraq was the story they followed most closely , nearly double the next highest story – winter weather . During that same week , 22 % of the news reported across a broad spectrum of media outlets was devoted to the Iraq war ( 12 % to the policy debate and 10 % to events on the ground ) , according to PEJ . The death of Anna Nicole Smith , which set off a classic media feeding frenzy , may be an instance where press coverage exceeded public demand . Eleven percent of the public said Smith 's death was the news story they followed most closely last week ; 9 % of the week 's news coverage was devoted to this topic . But because the death occurred mid-week , the full extent of news coverage is not accurately captured by that 9 % figure . In the two days immediately following Smith 's death ( Feb. 8 - 9 ) , nearly a quarter of the news from all sectors ( 24 % ) was devoted to this story , and fully half of cable news was focused on Smith . The public reacted negatively to the abundance of coverage – 61 % feel that the Smith story received too much coverage , compared with just 8 % who think it should have received more . It seems that news coverage of the weather did not match the public 's fascination with it . Record cold temperatures and dramatic snowstorms captured the interest of many Americans this past week – 17 % said the weather was their top story , while only 3 % of the news coverage was devoted to this topic .
Negative views of China predominate in both the United States and Canada , where 60 % and 67 % respectively see the country unfavorably . In both countries , this is the highest unfavorable opinion of China recorded in the Center 's polling history . ( For more on U.S. opinion , see `` U.S. Views of China Turn Sharply Negative Amid Trade Tensions . '' ) It also reflects the largest year-on-year change in either country . For example , in Canada , unfavorable opinion increased 22 points in the wake of the high-profile arrest of technology company Huawei 's chief financial officer and the ensuing Chinese detainment of two Canadian nationals who still remain in Chinese custody .
About six-in-ten Americans ages 18 to 29 say the primary way they watch television now is with streaming services on the internet . Much smaller shares of older Americans cite online streaming services as their primary way of watching TV ; older Americans tend to rely on cable connections . Overall , just 28 % of Americans cite streaming services as the primary way they watch TV .
Among those who say that it is at least probable that senior members of the Trump administration had improper contact with Russia , 36 % are very confident that Mueller 's investigation will be fair and another 31 % are somewhat confident . Among those who think that there was probably or definitely no improper contact , only 12 % are very confident in a fair investigation , while 30 % are somewhat confident .
Moreover , when asked whether they consider themselves as a national citizen first or as a Muslim first , French Muslims split relatively evenly ( 42 % vs. 46 % ) on the issue . Not only is this remarkably different from Muslims elsewhere in Europe ( fully 81 % of British Muslims self-identify with their religion rather than their nationality , for example ) but it is remarkably close to the responses given by Americans when asked whether they identify first as national citizens or as Christians ( 48 % vs. 42 % ) . Perhaps in this , as in other things , Muslims living in France are indeed absorbing the secular ways of their countrymen , among whom fully 83 % self-identify with their nationality , rather than their religion .
The public 's improving economic outlook is reflected in its policy agenda for President Trump and Congress in the coming year . Economic issues – improving the job situation , strengthening the economy and reducing the budget deficit – are viewed as less important policy priorities than they were just a few years ago . A new national survey by Pew Research Center of 1,503 adults , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 , 2018 , finds that strengthening the economy continues to rank among the public 's leading priorities ( 71 % top priority ) , along with defending against terrorism ( 73 % ) and improving the educational system ( 72 % ) .
Women are more likely than men to report increased importance and greater time spent on the site . Some 16 % of female users ( and 7 % of men ) say that Facebook has become more important to them over the last year , and 16 % of female users ( and 9 % of men ) say that they spend more time on the site now than they did a year ago .
The relatively young age at which rural gun owners first acquired a gun is perhaps not surprising : Americans who grew up in rural areas are more likely to have grown up with guns in their homes . About seven-in-ten Americans who grew up in a rural area ( 72 % ) say there were guns in their household growing up , compared with half ( 52 % ) of those who grew up in a small town and 39 % of those who grew up in a city .
Interest in the war in Iraq was higher last week than it has been in several months . A third of the public followed news about Iraq very closely , up from 24 % the previous week , and 13 % listed this as their most closely followed news story . Interest in the situation in Afghanistan was also up significantly . More than one-in-four Americans ( 27 % ) followed news about the military effort in Afghanistan very closely , and another 33 % paid fairly close attention . This is up from 19 % who followed the story very closely the previous week . Still , only 5 % listed Afghanistan as their most closely followed story .
By more than two-to-one ( 68 % to 25 % ) , white evangelical Protestants say the U.S. does not have a responsibility to accept refugees . Other religious groups are more likely to say the U.S. does have this responsibility . And opinions among religiously unaffiliated adults are nearly the reverse of those of white evangelical Protestants : 65 % say the U.S. has a responsibility to accept refugees into the country , while just 31 % say it does not .
According to a new Census report released last week , about one-third of the 47.4 million self-identified Hispanics chose `` some other race '' when describing their racial identity . Among them , 44.3 % wrote in Mexican , Mexican American or Mexico in the box provided . An additional 22.7 % wrote in Hispanic or Hispano or Hispana as their race and another 10.0 % wrote in Latin American or Latino or Latin .
The survey also finds that the current U.S. government policy of banning the payment of ransom money for hostages held by terrorist groups has widespread approval . Though the policy has come under some recent criticism , 70 % approve of the current U.S. government policy while just 25 % disapprove .
Not all Indian Americans are Hindu . Only about half ( 51 % ) of Indian Americans are Hindu , though nearly all Asian-American Hindus ( 93 % ) trace their heritage to India , according to our 2012 survey . 18 % of Indian Americans identified themselves as Christians ( as both Haley and Jindal do ) ; 10 % said they were Muslim . The religious shares of Indian Americans are markedly different from those of India itself ( where an estimated 79.5 % of the population is Hindu and only 2.5 % is Christian , according to Pew Research 's 2012 Global Religious Landscape report ) , reflecting differential migration patterns .
Negative ratings also extend to Obama 's handling of the U.S. economy . A 56 % -majority disapproves of how Obama is dealing with the economy , compared with 40 % who say they approve . While ratings of Obama 's job on the economy are poor , as they have been throughout much of his presidency , they have been worse at other points in his presidency , when disapproval reached into the 60s . Similarly , far more disapprove ( 55 % ) than approve ( 36 % ) of Obama 's handling of foreign policy , though his current ratings are little different than they were last fall .
Most Spaniards have little faith in elected officials , or the government more broadly , to act in their best interest . Only 23 % of Spaniards agree that elected officials care what people like them think . Roughly three-quarters ( 76 % ) disagree .
In the wake of Europe 's recession and currency crisis , support for the European Union and the belief that European economic integration was good for one 's country had declined precipitously across Europe , reaching a low point in 2013 . But this year , European public opinion is looking more upbeat . Favorable views of the EU and faith in a single , shared market are generally rebounding in the major EU member states , according to a new six-nation survey by the Pew Research Center . In Europe , the economic mood is brightening somewhat . This year , a median of 28 % in the six nations we surveyed – France , Germany , Italy , Poland , Spain and the United Kingdom – believe that economic conditions in their country are good . While that 's hardly an endorsement of the economy , it reflects an increase of 16 percentage points from two years ago .
The last two presidential elections have had the widest gaps in voting between young and old of any election since 1972 . This year , 60 % of those under 30 backed Obama , compared with just 48 % of those 30 and older ; in 2008 , the gap was 16 points ( 66 % of under 30 supported Obama vs. 50 % of those 30 and older ) . This year 's 12-point difference between old and young this year was identical to the gap in 1972 , when 46 % of voters 18 - 29 supported George McGovern compared with just 34 % of those 30 and older .
Factual knowledge alone does not explain public confidence in the scientific method to produce sound conclusions . Overall , a 63 % majority of Americans say the scientific method generally produces sound conclusions , while 35 % think it can be used to produce `` any result a researcher wants . '' People 's level of knowledge can influence beliefs about these matters , but it does so through the lens of partisanship , a tendency known as motivated reasoning .
Overall , views of the productivity of Congress are little changed over the past few years . When asked to compare the current Congress to recent sessions , about half of Americans ( 52 % ) say that it has accomplished less than usual , 8 % say that it has accomplished more , and a third ( 33 % ) say that it has accomplished about the same amount as recent sessions of Congress .
A global median of 70 % say China plays a more important role in the world than it did 10 years ago . Russia is a distant second in this assessment , with only 42 % saying that country is more important than it was a decade ago . A median of only 31 % believe the U.S. plays a more important role than it did a decade ago – less than half of the share who say this of China . Only 8 % of those surveyed say China plays a less important role than it did a decade ago , the lowest share across the seven countries tested . In the U.S. , 72 % believe China is more important now than it was a decade ago , while only 31 % of Americans say the same about their own country . While most agree that China 's global role has grown over the past decade , a lack of enthusiasm for Chinese world leadership persists . A median of 34 % of people around the world currently regard China as the world 's leading economic power – only slightly less than the 39 % who picked the U.S . Yet when thinking about the future , a 25-country median of 63 % say they prefer a world in which the U.S. is the leading power , while just 19 % would favor one in which China leads . Notably , four of the five countries most inclined to choose the U.S. over China are located in the Asia-Pacific region : 81 % of Japanese , 77 % of Filipinos , 73 % of South Koreans and 72 % of Australians all favor a future where Washington , not Beijing , leads .
President Donald Trump has appointed 29 judges to the federal bench since his inauguration , including 14 appeals court judges and a Supreme Court justice , Neil Gorsuch . While Trump has moved quickly to put his stamp on the federal judiciary , his judges have also faced a record amount of opposition , at least based on the average number of Senate votes cast against them . The 23 men and six women Trump has successfully appointed so far have faced a total of 654 `` no '' votes on the floor of the Senate , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Federal Judicial Center and the U.S. Senate . That works out to an average of nearly 23 votes against each confirmed judge – by far the highest average for any president 's judges since the Senate expanded to its current 100 members in 1959 . The 330 judges Barack Obama appointed during his eight years in office faced an average of six votes against them . George W. Bush 's 328 confirmed judges faced an average of two , and Bill Clinton 's 382 judges faced an average of just over one . ( This analysis counts judges for each Senate confirmation vote they faced . Some judges held multiple judicial positions and are counted more than once . Clarence Thomas , for instance , is counted twice under George H.W . Bush 's total because Thomas was confirmed to two separate positions that each required a confirmation vote : first to a seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 1990 , then to the Supreme Court in 1991 . )
The 71st General Assembly of the United Nations kicked off last week in New York at a time when the institution receives generally positive ratings from a diverse group of its constituent countries , according to our spring 2016 Global Attitudes Survey . Overall , majorities or pluralities have a positive view of the UN in 17 of the 19 countries surveyed . Positive opinions range from a high of 82 % in Sweden to 40 % in India ( where 43 % of the public has no opinion of the UN ) . Greece is the only country surveyed that has , on balance , a negative view of the international organization ( 53 % unfavorable ) . But significant numbers – though minorities – of the Spanish ( 37 % ) and Japanese ( 34 % ) also hold unfavorable views of the UN in 2016 .
People often elect politicians who are like them . Indeed , a regional comparison of members of Congress with the general public shows that , when it comes to religious affiliation , representatives often share their faith with many of their constituents . Across the four major U.S. regions ( as determined by the Census Bureau ) , there are correlations between the share of the general public affiliated with certain religious groups and the percentage of members of the House and Senate with the same affiliation , a new Pew Research Center analysis finds . And in some cases where a region has a clear majority or a larger-than-average share belonging to one group , the result is an even larger share of members of that group in Congress . For instance , the South has the highest percentage of self-identified Christians in the general population ( 78 % ) compared with the Northeast , Midwest and West . The South also has the highest share of Christians serving in Congress ( 96 % ) . The same holds true among Protestants : The South has the highest percentage of Protestants in the general population ( 61 % ) and in Congress ( 76 % ) . In the Northeast , there are relatively few Protestants among members of Congress ( 33 % ) as well as the general population ( 35 % ) . The Northeast has a higher percentage of Roman Catholics ( 32 % ) than any other region , and also has by far the biggest share of Catholic members of Congress ( 57 % ) . In addition , the Northeast has the highest percentage of Jews in the general population ( 4 % ) as well as in Congress ( 9 % ) .
On only one item – perceptions of the economic impact of immigrants – are the least financially secure more conservative than those who are better off : 44 % of the least secure say immigrants are a burden on the U.S. because `` they take our jobs , housing and health care . '' That is considerably higher than the share of the most financially secure ( 27 % ) who express this view . Yet negative views about immigrants are more strongly correlated with vote preference among the financially secure than among the insecure .
Americans are divided on the extent to which the country 's laws should reflect Bible teachings . Roughly half of U.S. adults say the Bible should influence U.S. laws either a great deal ( 23 % ) or some ( 26 % ) , and more than a quarter ( 28 % ) say the Bible should prevail over the will of the people if the two are at odds , according to the February survey . Half of Americans , meanwhile , say the Bible should n't influence U.S. laws much ( 19 % ) or at all ( 31 % ) .
And of course , widespread opposition to the war in Iraq has intensified anti-American sentiments among Muslim publics . Our 2006 poll showed that majorities in Jordan , Turkey , Egypt , Indonesia , and Pakistan believe the war has made the world a more dangerous place .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Jan. 5 - 9 among 1,503 adults finds that by two-to-one ( 60 % to 27 % ) Americans see China 's economic strength as a greater threat than its military strength . And as Obama goes into talks with the Chinese president , a 53 % -majority say it is very important for the U.S. to get tougher with China on trade and economic issues . Yet while Americans may see China as a problem , relatively few describe it as an adversary , and a 58 % -majority say it is very important to build a stronger relationship between the U.S. and China . By comparison , promoting human rights and better environmental policies and practices are important , but lower priorities .
In 2016 , 17.2 % of immigrants ages 25 and older had a bachelor 's degree and another 12.8 % had attained a postgraduate degree , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Both shares are up since 1980 , when 7.0 % held a bachelor 's degree and another 8.7 % held a postgraduate degree .
Almost a decade after the global financial crisis rattled national economies , many in the world feel their respective countries ' economies remain weak . A new Pew Research Center survey reveals a bleak picture in parts of Europe , with more than eight-in-ten in Greece , France and Spain describing their country 's economic situation as bad . This gloom is not shared by all in the European Union , however – most Swedes , Germans and Dutch say their economy is doing well . And in China , India and Australia , views are mostly positive . Just three of the 12 nations for which trends are available have seen an increase of public confidence in their national economy in the past year . This mirrors the International Monetary Fund 's projection that 2016 's global growth will be modest and fragile . In two major economies – Canada and Japan – views about economic conditions have become more negative than they were in 2015 .
A nationwide survey of Hispanic immigrants by the Pew Hispanic Center finds that more than nine-in-ten ( 93 % ) who have not yet naturalized say they would if they could . Asked in an open-ended question why they had n't naturalized , 26 % identified personal barriers such as a lack of English proficiency , and an additional 18 % identified administrative barriers , such as the financial cost of naturalization . The survey also revealed that among Hispanic legal permanent residents , just 30 % say they speak English `` very well '' or `` pretty well . '' ( See Appendix table A2 . )
Baby Boomers and prior generations have cast the vast majority of votes in every presidential election since 1980 , data from the Census Bureau 's November Current Population Survey voting supplement show . In 2012 , Boomers and previous generations accounted for 56 % of those who said they voted . And these generations dominated earlier elections to an even greater degree . In the 2012 election an estimated 70 % of eligible voters in the Baby Boom , Silent and Greatest generations voted . Turnout among these generations was similar in 2004 ( 70 % ) and 2008 ( 69 % ) . If ( and it 's a big if ) 70 % of Boomer-and-older eligible voters turn out in November , Millennials and Xers could match them even by turning out at much lower rates . A turnout rate of 70 % among older voters would translate to 68.6 million votes . Millennials and Gen X could match that number of votes with a turnout rate of 54.5 % . This level of turnout among the two younger generations seems plausible based on past elections .
A wide gap in presidential preferences emerged in the 2016 election between whites with and without a college degree . Trump 's margin among whites without a college degree was the largest among any candidate in exit polls since 1980 . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of non-college whites backed him , compared with just 28 % who supported Clinton .
While the Supreme Court has ruled that the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution prohibits school-sponsored prayer in public schools , the court also has made clear that individual students have a right to pray in public settings . And , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of teens ages 13 to 17 , a sizable share of students in public school are availing themselves of this right . The survey also examined public school prayer from a different angle by asking teens whether they see other students praying before eating lunch . Around one-in-six teens in public schools ( 16 % ) say they often or sometimes see other students doing this . Teens who identify with a religion are more likely than those who self-identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' to notice this ( 19 % vs. 9 % ) . Prayer in a school setting does n't just take place before lunch and , in fact , teens in public school are more likely to see students praying before sporting events ( 39 % ) than before lunch , according to the survey . Again , there are differences in these answers across religious groups : About half of evangelical Protestant teens ( 55 % ) and mainline Protestant teens ( 52 % ) say they commonly see other students praying before sporting events , as do 42 % of Catholic teens . By comparison , religiously unaffiliated teens – also known as `` nones '' – are far less likely to see this type of prayer ( 24 % ) .
In France , home to Europe 's largest Jewish population , reports of anti-Semitic incidents rose dramatically in 2018 . There were 541 cases reported last year – not as high as in some previous years , but a 74 % increase from 2017 , according to the country 's Ministère de l'Intérieur . And already in 2019 , there have been several new high-profile anti-Semitic incidents , including swastikas being spray-painted on graves in a Jewish cemetery .
While events in Iraq dominated public interest last week , news about a pregnant Ohio woman , Jessie Davis , who was missing and later found dead drew a large audience . Nearly a quarter of the public ( 23 % ) followed the Davis story very closely and the same percentage said this was the story they followed most closely — making it the second most closely followed story for the week . Davis 's disappearance and murder drew much greater interest among women than men . It was the top story for women overall ( 31 % of women listed this as their top story , while 22 % listed Iraq ) . By contrast , men were much more focused on Iraq . Just 15 % of men listed the Davis murder as their top story of the week , while twice as many ( 30 % ) cited Iraq . Overall , the national news media devoted 5 % of its coverage to the Davis story , making it the week 's fourth most heavily covered story ( behind the 2008 campaign , the situation in Iraq , and the conflict between rival Palestinian groups ) . However , cable news devoted 15 % of the newshole to the Davis story , making it the second most heavily covered story on cable for the week .
When thinking specifically about women seeking high political office , men are somewhat more likely than women to say having children early gives women a better chance of succeeding – 56 % vs. 47 % . Still , 24 % of men and 29 % of women say a woman should wait until she 's well established , politically , before having children . Smaller shares of both groups say women are most successful in politics if they do n't have children .
The survey asked Jews in Israel whether they identify with any of these international streams of Judaism , acknowledging that some of them may not be familiar to respondents . In Israel , very few Jews identify with Conservative ( 2 % ) or Reform ( 3 % ) Judaism , while half ( 50 % ) identify with Orthodoxy – including many Jews who are not highly religiously observant but may still be most familiar with Orthodox Judaism . About four-in-ten Israeli Jews ( 41 % ) do not identify with any of these three streams or denominations of Judaism .
The predominant view among emerging and developing countries is that their economies will improve over the next 12 months . But a plurality in advanced economies expects economic conditions to remain about the same . Relatively few around the world foresee their economies worsening .
When asked whether various challenges facing India have gotten better or worse in the past five years , a time frame that largely encompasses the term of the current Modi government , few Indians voice a positive judgment . Just one-in-five ( 21 % ) say job opportunities have gotten better , while 67 % think things have gotten worse ( including 47 % who say much worse ) . A similar share believes prices of goods and services ( 19 % ) , corruption ( 21 % ) and terrorism ( 21 % ) have gotten better . Meanwhile , 65 % say prices have gotten worse , 65 % are of the opinion that corruption has worsened ( including again 47 % who say it is much worse ) and 59 % think terrorism is worse . ( This survey was conducted roughly nine months prior to the Pulwama attack , later claimed by Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish-e-Mohammad . ) Roughly one-in-four think the gap between the rich and the poor has narrowed ( 27 % ) and that air quality has gotten better ( 27 % ) . In both cases , more than half the public thinks these things have gotten worse . And just 28 % say communal relations have improved , while 45 % say they have gotten worse .
In December , a majority of the public ( 82 % ) also said Trump should be more cautious in `` the kinds of things he says and tweets '' once he becomes president . Just 15 % said there is no need for him to change .
Generally , those who say they are worn out are more likely to say there is too much coverage of every topic compared with those who like seeing a lot of coverage of the election . On one topic a notable party difference emerges in whether there is too much or too little coverage : experience . Roughly half ( 53 % ) of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say that there has been too little coverage of the candidates ' experience , compared with only about a third ( 36 % ) of Republicans and Republican leaners . No other topic differed by more than 6 % in whether each is covered too much or too little .
Both McConnell and Schumer draw positive ratings from members of their own parties . Still , fewer than half of Republican and Republican-leaning independent voters ( 46 % ) say they have warm feelings toward McConnell , while about a quarter rate him coldly ( 26 % ) and 28 % offer a neutral score of 50 on the thermometer . Schumer 's ratings among Democrats and Democratic leaners are similar : 46 % warm , 26 % cold , 27 % neutral . The ratings for both Senate leaders are more positive among the most ideological members of their parties . A 56 % majority of conservative Republican voters view McConnell warmly , compared with just 20 % of moderate and liberal Republicans . Schumer is much more popular among liberal Democrats ( 60 % of whom give him a warm rating ) than among his party 's conservative and moderate voters ( 33 % ) . Most striking of all may be the negative ratings that both Senate leaders – and especially McConnell – receive from voters in the opposing party , particularly those who are strongly ideological . McConnell gets warm ratings from just 2 % of Democratic voters , while 77 % say they have very cold feelings toward him . And among liberal Democrats , 89 % feel very coldly toward him . Schumer 's ratings among Republicans are less intensely negative . Still , a large majority of Republicans ( 69 % ) feel very coldly toward Schumer , including 78 % of conservative Republicans .
Some of these positive views , though , are contingent on the respondent 's religious affiliation . Take India as an example . While Muslims were seen less favorably than Hindus in the country as a whole , this may in part reflect the fact that Muslims make up only 14 % of the Indian population . Among Muslim respondents , 98 % had a favorable view of Muslims , whereas among Hindus , favorability was much lower ( 65 % ) . More than nine-in-ten across both religious groups gave favorable views of Hindus , regardless of how they identified religiously .
One of the most dramatic shifts in recent years has been the rapid decline of the once-ubiquitous incandescent light bulb . Since the phase-out of standard incandescent bulbs began in 2012 , their share of the residential light-bulb market has fallen dramatically : just 25 % of total shipments so far this year , down from nearly two-thirds just two years ago , according to market-research firm IHS . Instead , people are buying more energy-efficient and longer-lasting alternatives , such as halogen and LED bulbs .
The long-running debate over health care reform continued to dominate public attention and media coverage last week as the final skirmishes played out on Capitol Hill and President Obama set out to promote the newly-enacted law . Two-thirds of Americans ( 66 % ) say they followed the health care debate more closely than any other major news story last week . Another 5 % say they followed news about vandalism and threats directed at Democrats who voted for the legislation most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press among 1,018 adults March 26 - 29 . The news media and the public were on the same page last week . Stories about the final steps in enacting the legislation and analysis of its expected impact accounted for 38 % of the newshole , while reporting about the vandalism and threats made up another 7 % . Together , they made up 45 % of coverage last week , according to an analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism .
In some ways , this is a partisan story . Republicans continue to be more wary of China than Democrats across many questions in this report . Nearly three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents see China unfavorably , compared with roughly six-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners . They are also more worried about China when it comes to cybersecurity and economic issues such as job losses to China and the trade imbalance . Republicans are more likely than Democrats to see the United States outpacing China as the world 's leading economic power as well as the world 's top military . And GOP supporters almost universally say it is better that the world be led by the U.S . Still , negative views of China increased slightly among Democrats this year , so partisans of both stripes are now largely negative toward the superpower . In fact , after seeing large increases in negative views of China from 2018 to 2019 , both parties registered their most unfavorable opinions to date in 2020 .
Interest in news about the presidential election is now at a level comparable to interest at about the same point in the 2008 campaign . Looking at monthly averages , 30 % said they followed election news very closely in July 2008 ; this July , 31 % say this .
But the U.S. gap in church attendance has been narrowing in recent decades as the share of women attending weekly has declined . Indeed , a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the General Social Survey ( GSS ) finds that between 1972 and 1974 , an average of 36 % of women and 26 % of men reported attending religious services at least once a week – a 10-percentage-point gap . After initially widening to 13 points in the mid-1980s , the gap began to shrink in the late 1980s through the 1990s . During this period , weekly attendance at religious services declined among all Americans , but it declined more among women than men . As a result , by the early 2010s , the gender gap in attendance had narrowed to just 6 points , with 28 % of women and 22 % of men saying they attend religious services at least weekly .
Bucking a long-range trend of declining viewership , the audience for local TV news grew in all three major time slots in 2013 . Viewership climbed 6 % in the morning ( 5 to 7 a.m. ) and 3 % in the early evening ( 5 to 7 p.m. ) newscasts , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . The audience barely edged up—by .1 % —in the late night slot ( 11 p.m. ) , a newscast that had suffered the biggest decreases in recent years . The good news comes after a difficult 2012 when late night and early evening audiences each dropped by 7 % and the morning audience decreased by 5 % . Indeed , viewership for all three slots had declined every year from 2008 - 2012—with the exception of a small uptick in 2011 . Pew Research analyzes Nielsen Media Research audience data for all four major sweeps periods — February , May , July and November — and computes national averages for each time slot . The jump in viewership in the key timeslots was due largely to significant increases in the November sweeps period when morning news was up 12 % , early evening grew by 8 % and late night increased by 6 % . While it is impossible to know whether the 2013 numbers are a harbinger of a new spurt of audience growth , they coincide with a wave of consolidation that has seen bullish media companies—from Gannett to Tribune—buy up large groups of stations . While the 2013 numbers are encouraging , the overall trend in local television news audience has not been positive . Even including 2013 , the morning newscasts—the most consistent viewership performer in local news—has lost 3 % of its audience since 2007 . The decrease from 2007 - 2013 in early evening news viewership has been more dramatic—12 % . And overall , the late night newscasts have lost about one-sixth of their viewers ( 17 % ) in that time period .
While the public appears increasingly attentive to election news , four-in-ten say they followed news about the rescue of the miners – heavily covered and broadcast live on television – more closely than any other news last week . Nearly two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the economy most closely ; 15 % say they followed news about the elections most closely .
Over the past 35 years , the share of American workers who belong to labor unions has fallen by about half . Union membership peaked in 1954 at nearly 35 % of all U.S. workers ( excluding the self-employed ) , but in 2018 the unionization rate was just 10.5 % . ( The share of workers represented by unions is a bit higher , 11.7 % , because about 1.6 million workers who are n't union members are in jobs covered by a union contract . ) The actual number of union members was 14.7 million last year , according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) . In 2012 , union membership hit its lowest point since the current data series began in the early 1980s , falling below 14.4 million , before turning modestly upward .
Notable shares of the public give people in these powerful jobs low ratings when it comes to behaving ethically , dealing with ethical problems in their ranks and admitting mistakes . Half or more of Americans think these influential people act unethically at least some of the time , ranging from 50 % who believe this about military leaders to 81 % who feel members of Congress act unethically `` some , '' or `` all or most of the time . '' Additionally , 77 % believe this about the leaders of technology companies and 69 % think this about religious leaders .
An estimated 36.6 million Hispanics of Mexican origin lived in the United States in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . Mexicans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Mexican origin ; this includes immigrants from Mexico and those who trace their family ancestry to Mexico . Mexicans are the largest population of Hispanic origin living in the United States , accounting for 62 % of the U.S. Hispanic population in 2017 . Since 2000 , the Mexican-origin population has increased 76 % , growing from 20.9 million to 36.6 million over the period . At the same time , the Mexican foreign-born population living in the U.S. grew by 29 % , from 8.7 million in 2000 to 11.2 million in 2017 .
The public is divided over how active a role they see Trump playing in his administration : 50 % say Trump will be in charge of what goes on in his administration most of the time , while 43 % say other people will be really running the government . In January 2001 , following the election of George W. Bush , a CBS/New York Times survey found that 38 % thought Bush would be in charge of what goes on in his administration most of the time , compared with 53 % who said other people would be really running the government . Views of Trump 's role vary greatly by partisan affiliation , as well as age . Three-quarters of Republicans and Republican leaners say Trump will be in charge of his administration , including 83 % of conservative Republicans and a somewhat smaller 61 % -majority of moderate and liberal Republicans . Young adults under age 30 do not think Trump will be in charge most of the time : 64 % say other people will really be running the government . By contrast , 67 % of those ages 65 and older say that Trump will be in charge of what goes on in his administration most of the time .
We compared the public assessment of national economic conditions in 38 countries surveyed this spring with two common measures of economic health : real gross domestic product ( GDP ) per capita and unemployment . Our analysis found a modest relationship at best between those indicators and how people rated their nation 's economy , with plenty of outliers in both directions .
The debate over the safety of genetically modified foods has put state lawmakers who favor requiring labeling of these products at odds with counterparts in Congress who oppose it . Americans ' concerns about GM foods are providing the backdrop : A majority of them believe such foods are generally unsafe to eat . More than half ( 57 % ) of U.S. adults believe that GM foods are generally unsafe to eat , while 37 % say these foods are safe , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Women are more likely than men to view GM foods as unsafe ( 65 % vs. 49 % ) . Opinions also vary by race and ethnicity ; blacks and Hispanics are more likely than whites to say that genetically modified foods are generally unsafe to eat .
Compared with a number of other leadership characteristics , willingness to compromise stands out as particularly appealing to Americans . Fully three-quarters say they like political leaders who are willing to compromise – nearly half ( 49 % ) say they like this trait in their leaders a lot . Just 21 % of Americans say this is something they dislike in their political leaders . And a 62 % majority wants to see a willingness to compromise when it comes to the most important issues of the day , even from the political party that they think most capable of handling things . But at the same time , the American public also likes leaders with the courage of their convictions . While three-in-four like leaders who are willing to compromise , two-thirds also say they like politicians who stick to their positions , even if unpopular . Just 28 % find this to be a negative trait . This conflict between compromise and conviction comes to a head when people are asked which kind of leaders they admire most . A slim majority ( 51 % ) think more highly of political leaders who make compromises , while 40 % most admire those who stick to their positions . The appeal of compromise is linked to a general distaste for ideologues . Majorities dislike political leaders who take liberal positions on nearly all issues ( 62 % ) as well as political leaders who take conservative positions on nearly all issues ( 57 % ) . Instead , by roughly two-to-one ( 60 % to 34 % ) most Americans like leaders who take a mix of conservative and liberal positions . And this view is widespread – a majority of Republicans , Democrats and independents alike look favorably on politicians who take a mix of positions .
In Pakistan , the Palestinian territories , Jordan , Malaysia and Senegal , roughly half or more of the full population says that laws in their country should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . By contrast , in Burkina Faso , Turkey , Lebanon and Indonesia , less than a quarter agree . And in many of these countries where non-Muslims make up a significant portion of the population , there are strong disagreements between major religious groups on this issue . For example , a 42 % plurality of Nigerians think laws should not be influenced by the Quran , while 27 % think laws should strictly follow the teachings of the Quran . However , among Nigerian Muslims , 52 % say national laws should conform to Islamic law , compared with only 2 % among Nigerian Christians .
Among Germans , views of their country 's handling of the coronavirus outbreak are tied to confidence in Merkel . Those who say their country has done a good job dealing with the virus are much more likely than those who say it has done a bad job to have confidence in Merkel ( 87 % vs. 41 % , respectively ) . Germans are also very positive when rating their own country 's job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak : Nearly nine-in-ten ( 88 % ) say the country has done well . About two-thirds say both the European Union and World Health Organization have done a good job with the outbreak . However , views are not so positive toward the other two countries asked about in the survey : A majority say China has done a bad job , and 88 % say the same of how the U.S. has handled the outbreak .
Those who pushed for the new watchdog cited the phone hacking scandal for undermining public trust in the press and reinforcing the need for more oversight . A Eurobarometer survey , sponsored late last year by the European Commission , found that only 21 % of the British public trusted the print press , compared with 49 % who trusted television and 54 % who trusted radio . While those numbers are bleak for print outlets , they are in keeping with trust levels that have hovered between the high teens and low twenties in past Eurobarometer surveys .
Whose job will it be to square that circle ? Mainly the 80 million or so members of the Millennial generation , now anywhere from their teens to early 30s . That generation — currently the largest segment of the U.S. population — embodies the nation 's growing diversity : 43 % of Millennials are non-white , the highest share of any generation . And while they 're much less trusting than their elders ( only 19 % say most people can be trusted , about half the level of Boomers ) , they 're also more optimistic about the future : 55 % say that America 's best days are ahead of it , compared with 48 % of Boomers .
As might be expected , Republican Muslims are less likely than Democrats to see the Republican Party generally , and President Trump specifically , as unfriendly toward Muslim Americans . Still , sizable shares see their own party – and Trump – as unfriendly . In the 2017 survey , around half of GOP Muslims ( 52 % ) said Trump is unfriendly toward U.S. Muslims and about a third ( 34 % ) said the same about the GOP in general .
Among Republicans , 51 % think the aid will help their household at least a fair amount , while about as many ( 49 % ) say it will help them not too much or not at all . Democrats are less hopeful : 40 % say it will help their household a great deal or fair amount , compared with 59 % who think it wo n't help much or at all .
Men and women express similar views on abortion ; 60 % of women say it should be legal in all or most cases , as do 61 % of men .
Perceptions of both parties remain little changed from April . Currently , four-in-ten have a favorable view of the Republican Party , while 54 % express an unfavorable one . A comparable share of the public rates the Democratic Party favorably ( 44 % ) , while half have an unfavorable opinion .
Across the European countries surveyed , a median of 47 % think Germany is playing a more important role in the world than it was 10 years ago . This view is most pronounced in Greece , where 81 % say Germany plays a more important role , and just 5 % say it has a less important role . Majorities in Spain and Italy also feel Germany plays a more important role today than it has in past .
The survey also illustrates the extent to which Americans are turning toward the collective wisdom of online reviews and ratings when making purchasing decisions . Roughly eight-in-ten Americans ( 82 % ) say they consult online ratings and reviews when buying something for the first time . In fact , 40 % of Americans ( and roughly half of those under the age of 50 ) indicate that they nearly always turn to online reviews when buying something new . Moreover , nearly half of Americans feel that customer reviews help `` a lot '' to make consumers feel confident about their purchases ( 46 % ) and to make companies be accountable to their customers ( 45 % ) .
Presidents have generally become less forgiving over time , at least when looking at the proportion of clemency requests they have granted . Every president from McKinley to Carter granted clemency to at least 20 % of those who asked for it , according to the Justice Department data . But the percentages have fallen to the single digits for every president since George H.W . Bush , including Obama , who granted clemency to just 5 % of those who petitioned him for it . Obama 's relatively low percentage , however , is largely due to the fact that his administration encouraged federal prisoners to apply for leniency under a program known as the Clemency Initiative . The program , which launched in April 2014 and ended in 2017 when Obama left office , allowed `` qualified federal inmates '' – those who met certain Justice Department criteria – to apply to have their prison sentences commuted . The initiative led to a surge in petitions and helps explain why Obama 's use of clemency tilted so heavily toward sentence commutations , rather than pardons .
Police officers are also viewed more positively by Republicans than Democrats . Among Republicans , 86 % give officers a warm rating , including 74 % who rate officers very warmly . Among Democrats , 57 % give officers a warm rating on the scale ( including just 33 % who rate officers very warmly ) , while 21 % offer a neutral rating and 19 % offer a cold rating . Conservative and moderate Democrats ( 58 % ) and liberal Democrats ( 56 % ) are about equally likely to rate officers warmly , but liberal Democrats are less likely to offer a very warm rating .
Nearly four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) identify as independents , 32 % as Democrats and 23 % as Republicans , based on aggregated data from 2014 . The share of self-described independents has risen nine points over the past decade , up from 30 % in 2004 . Over this period , the percentage of Republicans has fallen six points – from 29 % to 23 % – while the share of Democrats is little changed . ( Here is a timeline of party affiliation among the public since 1939 . )
George W. Bush has reopened a significant lead over challenger John Kerry over the past week , even as voters express less confidence in the president on Iraq and he continues to trail Kerry on the economy . Two successive nationwide surveys of nearly 1,000 registered voters each show Bush 's margin over Kerry growing steadily since mid-September ( Sept. 11 - 14 ) , when the two men were tied at 6 % -46 % . Bush 's slight 45 % -42 % advantage in the Sept. 17 - 21 survey has grown to 48 % -40 % in the current poll ( Sept. 22 - 26 ) . The poll finds that Bush 's gains in support are being driven more by perceptions of Kerry 's weakness especially on leadership and other personal traits than by improved opinions of Bush . Fewer voters favor Bush over Kerry on handling Iraq than did so earlier this month ( 46 % now , 52 % Sept. 11 - 13 ) . But Kerry 's rating in the head-to-head evaluation on Iraq is no higher ( 38 % now , 40 % then ) . The Democratic challenger continues to inspire more confidence than Bush with regard to improving the economy , which 60 % of Americans believe is in only fair or poor shape . But even here , the percentage favoring Kerry has not increased since the Sept. 11 - 13 survey ( 46 % now , 47 % then ) .
While Trump 's ratings today are about the same as they have been throughout his years in office ( his rating has consistently fallen between 38 % and 45 % and hovered around 40 % for much of his term ) , other presidents ' ratings saw far more change . Obama 's initial approval rating of 64 % dropped off in the first few months and largely remained in the mid to high 40s for much of his first term . Obama 's approval rating peaked at 56 % in May 2011 – immediately following the killing of Osama Bin Laden – and sat at 50 % in the summer of 2012 .
Roughly two-thirds of Greeks ( 68 % ) and British ( 65 % ) want some EU power returned to Athens and London . This is particularly the view of British ages 50 and older ( 73 % ) ; only 51 % of those ages 18 - 34 agree . Pluralities in Sweden ( 47 % ) , the Netherlands ( 44 % ) , Germany ( 43 % ) and Italy ( 39 % ) also want to curtail EU power . Conversely , there is little enthusiasm for transferring more power to Brussels . As the British head to the polls , just 6 % of the public in the UK wants such an outcome . And only 8 % of Greeks favor more power for the EU . The strongest backing for an ever closer Europe is only 34 % , in France . In most countries a quarter or more of the public prefers to keep the current division of power .
Unemployment rose appreciably over the course of the first President Bush 's second year in office — from 5.4 % in January 1990 to 6.3 % by the end of the year . But the lead up to the invasion of Iraq produced a typical rally around the president in times of foreign crisis that kept Bush 's approval ratings quite healthy . America 's quick and relatively painless Gulf War victory sent his approval scores to record highs in the first quarter of 1991 obviating the political impact of a steady rise in unemployment … but not for long . Over the course of the remainder of the year , Bush 's approval rating tumbled , falling from a high of 86 % in March to 50 % in December . Over that period , the unemployment rate rose from 6.4 % to 7.3 % . For much of Clinton 's first term , unemployment rates and public judgments of the president were not in close correspondence . Unemployment declined from above 7 % at the time he took office to 5.5 % by the end of 1994 . However , Clinton 's ratings were quite mixed for much of this time reflecting political difficulties ( the collapse of health care reform , and bitter fights over his crime bill and economic packages ) , as well as controversies over his past personal and financial involvements . However , Clinton 's ratings began to improve in the fall of 1995 as a result of a successful showdown with Newt Gingrich over a shutdown of the federal government . Unemployment remained low in 1996 , and Clinton 's ratings rose .
However , the public 's basic views about U.S. forces in Afghanistan and the threat of terrorism in the United States have not fundamentally changed . The public remains divided over whether the U.S. should keep troops in Afghanistan until the situation has stabilized or should remove the troops as soon as possible .
People with the most education are the most likely to say that gays and lesbians were born that way . Indeed , 58 % of Americans with a postgraduate degree say that people are born gay or lesbian , compared with just 35 % of those with a high school diploma or less .
By 2015 , eligible immigrants from India had one of the higher naturalization rates ( 80 % ) due to a 12-percentage-point increase in its naturalization rate since 2005 . Only eligible immigrants from Ecuador ( 68 % in 2015 ) had as large an increase . This is a bigger increase than for U.S. immigrants overall , among whom naturalization rates jumped from 62 % in 2005 to 67 % in 2015 . ( Eligible immigrants from Vietnam , 86 % , and Iran , 85 % , had the highest naturalization rates of any group in 2015 . )
The public and the media focused on economic issues last week , with 24 % of Americans saying they followed news about the economy more closely than other major stories . Another 9 % say they followed news about proposals for stricter regulation of banks and financial institutions most closely . Americans also continued to closely track news about travel disruptions in Europe caused by ash from the erupting volcano in Iceland ( 20 % most closely ) , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey conducted April 23 - 26 among 1,008 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . In terms of coverage , news about the economy in general made up 13 % of the newshole last week , while debate in Washington about a financial regulatory overhaul made up 14 % . Together , they accounted for 27 % of the coverage examined by the Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , a separate project of the Pew Research Center . News about the volcano made up 11 % of coverage .
Nearly four-in-ten Americans ( 39 % ) say that if Kavanaugh is confirmed by the Senate to sit on the Supreme Court he would overturn the court 's Roe v. Wade decision guaranteeing the right to abortion . Fewer ( 29 % ) say Kavanaugh would not vote to overturn Roe , while 32 % do not express an opinion or say it would not matter . In contrast , Republicans are divided : 39 % say Kavanaugh would not vote to overturn Roe , while 27 % say he would do this ; 34 % offer no response . There are no significant ideological differences among Republicans in these views .
About four-in-ten Black adults ( 42 % ) say spending on police in their area should decrease , including 22 % who say spending should be decreased a lot . One-third of Black adults say spending should stay the same , while 22 % say it should be increased .
Among Latin American and Caribbean countries , Mexico has long received the highest amount of remittances . In 2016 , $ 28.6 billion in remittances flowed to Mexico ( up 9.3 % from the previous year ) – a total that accounted for over a third of remittances to all of Latin America and the Caribbean . After Mexico , Guatemala ( $ 7.5 billion ) , the Dominican Republic ( $ 5.5 billion ) and Colombia ( $ 4.9 billion ) received the highest amounts of remittances in the Latin America and Caribbean region in 2016 .
About seven-in-ten Americans ( 72 % ) say that changing an unborn baby 's genetic characteristics to treat a serious disease or condition that the baby would have at birth is an appropriate use of medical technology , while 27 % say this would be taking technology too far . A somewhat smaller share of Americans say gene editing to reduce a baby 's risk of developing a serious disease or condition over their lifetime is appropriate ( 60 % say this , while 38 % say it would be taking medical technology too far ) . But just 19 % of Americans say it would be appropriate to use gene editing to make a baby more intelligent ; eight-in-ten ( 80 % ) say this would be taking medical technology too far .
Across the seven Middle Eastern countries surveyed , a median of 34 % see religious and ethnic hatred as the world 's top threat . This includes 58 % of Lebanese , a country divided by religion and bordering both Syria and Israel . Given the history of religious violence in the region , the result might not be surprising . Yet , since the question was last asked in 2007 , and religious and ethnic conflicts have played out in Syria , Iraq and beyond , fears have increased significantly in the region , including Lebanon ( +19 percentage points ) , Egypt ( +18 ) , Turkey ( +9 ) and Jordan ( +6 ) .
A survey in March found that 71 % of Americans say there should be a way for people in the United States illegally to remain in this country if they meet certain requirements , while 27 % say they should not be allowed to stay legally . But there is a division of views among the 71 % who support finding a way for immigrants here illegally to stay . Roughly four-in-ten ( 43 % ) of the public says unauthorized immigrants should be allowed to apply for citizenship , but 24 % of the public says they should only be allowed to apply for legal residency .
But when they 're asked about the time they spend with their children , dads are much more likely than moms to say it 's not enough . About half ( 48 % ) of working dads say they spend too little time with their kids , compared with just 26 % of working moms . Most working moms ( 66 % ) say they spend the right amount of time with their kids .
Young adults are more likely to use their cellphones for a variety of tasks and to say it 's OK to do so in social situations . Some 52 % of cellphone owners ages 18 to 29 say they frequently use their phone to look up information about where they are going while out in public , compared with 9 % of cell users ages 65 and older . Similarly , 49 % of younger cell users say they frequently use their phone to coordinate getting together with others while they are out and about , compared with just 12 % of seniors .
Last fall , Trump held a wide 60 % -34 % advantage over Hillary Clinton among veterans , according to the national exit poll conducted by Edison Research for the National Election Pool as reported by CNN . Eight years earlier , veterans backed John McCain over Barack Obama by 54 % to 44 % . ( The national exit poll did n't ask about veteran status in 2012 . ) In the April survey , veterans were more likely than the public overall to identify as independents , but they were about as likely as adults overall to identify as Republicans . Just 20 % of veterans identified as Democrats , compared with about a third of all adults . When the partisan leanings of independents are taken into account , a majority of veterans ( 56 % ) either identified as Republicans or leaned toward the GOP ; just 40 % identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic . Among the public , these numbers were almost the reverse : 43 % identified as Republicans or leaned Republican , while 54 % identified or leaned Democratic .
The public remained focused on the unfolding environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico last week , while the media divided its attention between two top stories : the oil leak and controversial comments by Gen. Stanley McChrystal that led to his ouster as commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan . More than half of the public ( 53 % ) says they followed news about the Gulf coast oil leak more closely than any other major story . Just 7 % say they followed news about the general 's comments and resignation most closely , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted June 24 - 27 among 1,001 adults by the Pew Research Center .
In 24 emerging and developing nations surveyed , internet adoption varies widely . In countries such as Russia , Argentina , Chile , and Venezuela , more than half the adult population says they use the internet . But that number is far lower in Pakistan , where only 8 percent of adults do , and Ghana , where only 26 % are online . In the U.S. , 84 % use the internet . Some 71 % of Americans use the internet at least daily ; another 13 % use it weekly or less often . The U.S. data show considerably higher adoption and usage rates of the internet than the figures coming from emerging nations . Roughly speaking , higher-adoption locales like Russia and Argentina show tech adoption similar to the U.S. in 2005 , middle-adoption locales like China show adoption similar to rates in the U.S. in 2000 - 2001 , and lower-adoption places like Ghana show adoption similar to rates in the US in the mid- to late-1990s .
While California prisons are overcrowded , U.S. prisons overall are operating at 99 % capacity , according to the International Centre for Prison Studies , putting the U.S. in the middle of a group of selected countries highlighted by the Economist in the chart above . Topping the list was Haiti , whose population of 9,904 inmates were housed in a system of 17 prisons operating at 336 % occupancy level in 2009 . The U.S. announced plans earlier this year to build two prisons in Haiti 's provinces as part of an international effort to ease the severe overcrowding that often requires inmates to take turns sleeping at night because of lack of space .
Overall , Americans believe there should be a strong connection between local journalists and the communities they serve . But there are again some partisan differences on several measures of that connection . Republicans , for example , are somewhat less likely than Democrats to say local journalists are in touch with the communities they serve ( 61 % of Republicans say this vs. 67 % of Democrats ) and that local news media cover the area where they live ( 49 % vs. 54 % ) and have a lot of local influence ( 34 % vs. 40 % ) .
A larger share of adults have cohabited than have been married . Among adults ages 18 to 44 , 59 % have lived with an unmarried partner at some point in their lives , while 50 % have ever been married , according to Pew Research Center analysis of the National Survey of Family Growth . By contrast , in 2002 , 54 % of adults in this age group had ever cohabited and 60 % had ever married . Most adults ages 18 to 44 who have cohabited ( 62 % ) have only ever lived with one partner , but 38 % have had two or more partners over the course of their life .
These differences reflect a broader regional divide . New England residents are most likely to favor legalized abortion . Fully 75 % say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 20 % say abortions should be illegal in all or most cases . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) in the Pacific Coast region , and solid majorities in the Mid-Atlantic ( 61 % ) and Mountain West ( 59 % ) also favor legal abortion . At the other end of the spectrum , residents of the South Central states – ranging from Texas and Oklahoma to Alabama to Kentucky – express the least support for abortion . A majority ( 52 % ) in these states say that abortion should be illegal in all or most cases , while just 40 % say it should be generally legal . There is also substantially more opposition to abortion in Midwestern states than in the country at large . In this region – ranging from Kansas and Missouri to Minnesota and North Dakota –as many say abortion should generally be illegal as say it should generally be legal ( 47 % ) .
The number of Mexicans living in the U.S. is very large from Mexico 's perspective , too . About 11 % of everyone born in Mexico is currently living in the U.S . This large-scale transfer of population has taken place fairly quickly in demographic terms . As of 1970 , 760,000 Mexican immigrants , or 1.4 % of Mexico 's population , lived in the U.S. And in 1960 , Mexico ranked seventh as a source of immigrants to the U.S. , behind Italy , Germany , Canada , the Soviet Union , the United Kingdom and Poland .
In a survey in February and March 2018 , 56 % of Americans said tech companies should take steps to restrict false information online , even if it limits freedom of information . Around four-in-ten ( 42 % ) said freedom of information should be protected even if it means false information can be published . Republicans were about evenly divided on this question ( 50 % vs. 48 % ) , while most Democrats ( 60 % ) said tech companies should take steps to restrict false information online . Notably , Americans were more open to tech companies restricting false information online than they were about the government doing the same . Only about four-in-ten adults ( 39 % ) said the government should take steps to restrict false information online , while 58 % said freedom of information should be protected even if it means false information can be published .
Among those who prioritize gun rights , 41 % say they would not vote for a candidate with whom they disagreed on gun policy , even if they agreed with the candidate on most other issues . Fewer gun control supporters ( 31 % ) say gun policy is a make-or-break voting issue for them .
Labor market activity—gauged by the share of persons employed or actively seeking work—diminished in the face of the recession . Among all persons , labor force participation fell from 66.3 % in the fourth quarter of 2007 to 66.0 % in the fourth quarter of 2008 , a decline of 0.3 percentage points . The greatest drop in labor force participation was registered by foreign-born Hispanics ( 0.8 percentage points ) and Asian workers ( 0.9 percentage points ) .
With respect to the ongoing conflict in Syria , publics are divided on how long they expect it to continue ; a median of 26 % expect the war in Syria to end in the next year , 32 % expect it to end in the next five years and 29 % think it will continue for more than five years . Overall , just 32 % in Jordan are optimistic about the war ending in the next year , but 64 % of Syrians living in Jordan expect the conflict will end in 2018 . Additionally , on the issue of allowing Syrian refugees into their country , people in Jordan , Turkey and Lebanon are strongly in favor of letting in fewer , with many volunteering `` none '' as the best option .
Some 54 % of parents in households with two full-time working parents say the mother does more to manage the children 's schedule and activities , while 39 % say this task is shared equally and 6 % say the father does more . And 47 % say the mother takes on more when their children fall ill , equal to the share saying they split this duty equally ; just 6 % say the father does more of this .
But part of the methodological elegance of this famous battery , developed about a half-century ago by Princeton University psychologist Hadley Cantril , is that respondents are n't asked , directly , to evaluate their own progress in life . Rather , they are asked to imagine a ladder with ten steps , with 10 representing the highest possible quality of life for them and zero the lowest . Then they 're asked which step of the ladder they feel they 're on at the present time ; which step they were on five years ago ; and finally , which step they expect to be on five years from now . People are n't asked to make `` better '' or `` worse '' judgments . They 're simply asked to assign numerical ratings to their life at three different points in time . For example , in the 2006 Pew survey ( taken this summer ) , Americans on average gave a 6.1 score to their lives five years ago ; a 6.8 score to their present quality of life ; and a 7.8 score to the lives they expect to be leading five years from now . That adds up an aggregate average of 1.7 rating points worth of forward progress between five years ago and five years hence .
Even as public views of the federal government in Washington have fallen to another new low , the public continues to see their state and local governments in a favorable light . Overall , 63 % say they have a favorable opinion of their local government , virtually unchanged over recent years . And 57 % express a favorable view of their state government – a five-point uptick from last year . By contrast , just 28 % rate the federal government in Washington favorably . That is down five points from a year ago and the lowest percentage ever in a Pew Research Center survey .
While the public continues to say a new economic stimulus package is needed to address the impact of the coronavirus , Republicans have turned more skeptical about the need for additional economic stimulus . About seven-in-ten Americans ( 71 % ) say a new package is needed , beyond the $ 2 trillion package passed by President Donald Trump and Congress in March . That is down from 77 % who said this in April .
The number of Americans ages 16 and older who own tablet computers has grown to 35 % , and the share who have e-reading devices like Kindles and Nooks has grown to 24 % . Overall , the number of people who have a tablet or an e-book reader among those 16 and older now stands at 43 % .
Although many observers have documented a global decline in democratic rights in recent years , people around the world nonetheless embrace fundamental democratic values , including free expression . A new Pew Research Center survey finds that majorities in nearly all 38 nations polled say it is at least somewhat important to live in a country with free speech , a free press and freedom on the internet . And across the 38 countries , global medians of 50 % or more consider these freedoms very important .
Views about the national economy have improved over the last year . Currently , 49 % say the economy is in good shape , while 48 % describe economic conditions as bad . In the spring 2010 Pew Global Attitudes survey , 65 % rated the economy poorly and just 34 % said it was in good shape . Turkish assessments of the economy are much more positive today than when Erdogan won office nearly a decade ago . In a 2002 poll , conducted a few months before Erdogan 's AKP won its first national election , only 14 % said economic conditions were good . By the next national election in 2007 , this had risen to 46 % .
Younger Venezuelans and those with higher levels of education are slightly less likely to trust the government . Partisan differences are particularly stark . Those who identified as supporters of Maduro 's United Socialist Party of Venezuela ( PSUV ) when the poll was conducted are much more likely to trust the government than those who support other parties or have no partisan affiliation ; 71 % of PSUV backers trust the national government , compared with just 20 % of other people .
Money sent by immigrants to their home countries in sub-Saharan Africa reached a record $ 41 billion in 2017 . This represents a 10 % jump in remittances from the previous year , the largest annual growth for any world region , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of World Bank data . The increase follows a decline in remittances to sub-Saharan Africa in 2016 , when the region saw a 9 % decrease over the previous year , by far the largest regional drop in the world .
Views about the future of abortion do not necessarily mirror Americans ' current beliefs about whether abortion should be legal or illegal . A separate , September 2018 survey by the Center found that a majority ( 58 % ) of the public said abortion should be legal in all or most cases , compared with 37 % who said it should be illegal in all or most cases .
Most oppose Trump policies that withdraw U.S. support for major trade and climate change agreements . Globally , a median of 72 % disapprove of Trump 's proposal to withdraw the U.S. from major international trade pacts . Majorities in Japan ( 66 % ) and Vietnam ( 61 % ) hold this view , as do 72 % in the Philippines and 80 % in South Korea . The survey was conducted after Trump signed an executive order withdrawing the U.S. from the Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement , of which Vietnam and Japan are signatories .
With the exception of YouTube – the video-sharing platform used by 73 % of adults – no other major social media platform comes close to Facebook in terms of usage . Around four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 37 % ) say they use Instagram , while smaller shares say they use Pinterest , Snapchat , LinkedIn , Twitter and WhatsApp . Facebook owns Instagram and WhatsApp .
A majority of parents are concerned about the types of experiences their teen might encounter online . Roughly two-thirds of parents of teens ( 65 % ) say they worry at least some about their teen spending too much time in front of screens , including a third who worry a lot about this . Parents express comparable levels of concern about other potentially negative online experiences for their kids : About six-in-ten say they worry a lot or some about their teen losing the ability to have in-person conversations , sharing too much about themselves online , being bullied online or exchanging explicit messages .
More than one-fourth of Hispanic adults in the United States lack a usual health care provider , and a similar proportion report obtaining no health care information from medical personnel in the past year . At the same time , more than eight in 10 report receiving health information from alternative sources , such as television and radio , according to a Pew Hispanic Center ( PHC ) survey of Latino adults , conducted in conjunction with the RobertWood Johnson Foundation ( RWJF ) .
After exhibiting relatively strong growth between early 2005 and early 2006 , home broadband adoption in 2006 - 2007 grew at its slowest rate in recent years . As of March 2007 , 47 % of adult Americans say they have a high-speed connection at home , up from 42 % in early 2006 . This 12 % year-to-year growth rate is much lower than the 40 % rate in the previous period .
But among racial and ethnic groups , the flattest employment-to-population ratio has been among whites — fluctuating between 59 % and 60 % since late 2009 . Over time , the ratio is expected to fall , as more whites retire than enter the labor force .
New York stands out for the racial and ethnic diversity of its immigrant eligible voters . Asians ( 26 % ) , Latinos ( 25 % ) and whites ( 25 % ) make up similar shares of the state 's immigrant eligible voters , while black immigrants ( 21 % ) are a slightly lower share .
Across several questions , blacks generally hold more positive views about video games . Some 19 % of blacks say that most games promote teamwork and communication , compared with 10 % of Hispanics and 8 % of whites . Blacks are also more inclined to agree that most video games help develop good problem solving and strategic thinking skills – 22 % hold this view , versus 18 % of Hispanics and 15 % of whites .
And among those who say that most or all of their family shares their political views , a wide majority ( 70 % ) says their family is `` okay with '' talking about politics , while just 30 % say their family tries to avoid the subject . However , among those who say almost no one or just a few people in their family share their political views , a 59 % majority says their family tries to avoid talking about politics , while a smaller share ( 41 % ) says their family finds such discussions acceptable .
The Brazilian public expects a recovery soon . While recent economic forecasts point to a slow recovery , the majority of the Brazilian public remains confident that the economy will bounce back in the near future . Nearly seven-in-ten Brazilians ( 69 % ) say the country 's economic situation will improve over the next 12 months , with roughly a third ( 34 % ) believing it will improve a lot . Individuals with higher levels of education are less optimistic about the future , however . About half ( 51 % ) of Brazilians who completed college believe the economy will improve , compared to 71 % of those without university degrees .
Asia-Pacific publics have more mixed views about each other 's leaders , in part due to their lack of familiarity with them . A median of 47 % have confidence in Chinese President Xi Jinping to do the right thing regarding world affairs . A median of 43 % have confidence in Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe 's handling of international issues , with more than twice as many expressing support . But just 39 % voice confidence in Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi 's role on the world stage . The share with positive sentiment about Modi is again larger than those with negative views , but a relatively high proportion of respondents voice no opinion , a testimony to Modi 's low public profile in the region .
As of September 2010 , 4 % of American adults own a tablet computer such as an iPad . Though education and household income are high predictors for owning a tablet computer , as with e-book readers , they are also more popular with adults age 56 and under ( who are significantly more likely to own a tablet computer than adults age 66 and older ) .
That stands in contrast to those in older generations , who in some cases are more likely to say they celebrate Christmas as a religious holiday , attend religious services for Christmas and believe Jesus Christ was born of a virgin , according to a new look at the data . Similarly , about half of Millennials ( 49 % ) said before Christmas in 2013 that they did not plan to attend religious services on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day , compared with 41 % of Boomers and 35 % of Silent generation members . And while fully one-quarter of Millennials ( 26 % ) say they do not they believe Jesus Christ was born to a virgin , about one-in-five or fewer among older generations say the same .
Non-white internet users continue to have higher rates of Twitter use than their white counterparts ; indeed , the Twitter adoption gap between African-Americans and whites has increased over the past six months . In November 2010 , there was an eight percentage point difference in Twitter use between African-American and white internet users ( 13 % for blacks vs. 5 % for whites ) . By May 2011 , that gap was 16 percentage points—25 % of online African Americans now use Twitter , compared with 9 % of such whites . African-American and Latino internet users are each significantly more likely than whites to be Twitter adopters . Even more notable : One in ten African-American internet users now visit Twitter on a typical day—that is double the rate for Latinos and nearly four times the rate for whites .
At the same time , the public has grown more negative about the situation in Iraq and President Bush 's handling of the war . Half of Americans now believe that the war in Iraq will turn out to be another Vietnam , while just a third think that the U.S. will accomplish its goals there . As recently as April , opinion on this issue was evenly divided ( 43 % felt the U.S. would accomplish its goals vs. 41 % who said it will be another Vietnam ) . And just 23 % approve of President Bush 's handling of the situation in Iraq ­ down nine points since August . Bush 's overall job approval mark of 32 % is unchanged from November , though it remains the lowest of his presidency . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , conducted Dec. 6 - 10 among 1,502 adults , finds that 52 % currently describe the violence in Iraq as `` mostly a civil war , '' rather than an insurgency against the U.S. and its allies . While this is largely unchanged from September , it represents a major shift from a year ago . In December 2005 , just 30 % viewed the violence in Iraq as mostly a civil war while 58 % said it was an insurgency aimed at the U.S. and its allies .
While the idea of raising the minimum wage is broadly popular , a Pew Research Center survey this past August found clear partisan and racial differences in support . Overall , 52 % of people favored increasing the federal minimum to $ 15 an hour , but that idea was favored by just 21 % of Trump supporters ( versus 82 % of Clinton backers ) . And while large majorities of blacks and Hispanics supported a $ 15 federal minimum wage , 54 % of whites opposed it ,
Even though college enrollment rates among young people have risen in recent decades , a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data shows that females outpace males in college enrollment , especially among Hispanics and blacks . A similar pattern is seen among young Hispanics . In 1994 , among Hispanics who completed high school , about half of men and women immediately enrolled in college . Nearly two decades later , college enrollments for both groups improved , but women outpaced men by 13 percentage points . For black high school graduates , there 's a different story . In 1994 , young black men were more likely than young black women to be enrolled in college immediately after high school . By 2012 , the pattern had reversed : The share of young black men enrolled in college remained stagnant , while the share of young black women enrolled in college increased to 69 % —a 12 percentage point gap with black men .
About half or more of the publics in both emerging economies ( 51 % ) and developing nations ( 54 % ) believe that when today 's children grow up they will be better off financially than their parents . This includes more than half in 11 of 21 emerging markets and five of eight developing countries .
Religion is significantly less important to Europeans than to Americans . Just over half in the U.S. ( 53 % ) say religion is very important in their life , nearly double the share who hold this view in Poland , which registered the highest percentage among EU nations polled in 2015 . In France , only 14 % consider religion very important . Globally , there is a strong relationship between a country 's wealth and its level of religiosity . Nations with higher levels of gross domestic product per capita tend to have lower percentages saying religion is very important in their lives . However , the U.S. is a clear outlier to this pattern – a wealthy nation that is also relatively religious .
Seven-in-ten blacks said that blacks in their community were treated less fairly than whites in dealings with the police . In comparison , 37 % of whites and 51 % of Hispanics held that view . Also , 68 % of blacks said that the court system was unfair to blacks , far more than whites ( 27 % ) or Hispanics ( 40 % ) .
News about the economy is the week 's top story . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) followed news about the condition of the economy very closely , which is on par with interest in the economy for the past several months . An increasing percentage said the news they are hearing about the economy is mostly bad ; 37 % say that currently , the highest percentage this year . ( For more see `` Perceptions of Economic News Turn More Negative , '' June 5 , 2012 . ) Nearly three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they are following news about the presidential candidates very closely , which also is little changed from the past few months . And while there is scant public interest in news about Europe 's economic problems and political violence in Syria , interest in the conclusion of the John Edwards trial also attracted little interest . Just 13 % say they followed news about the Edwards verdict very closely . Edwards was acquitted on one campaign fraud charge , while the jury deadlocked on five other charges .
There remains a widespread perception that the U.S. acts unilaterally and does not consider the interests of other countries . In predominantly Muslim nations , American anti-terrorism efforts are still widely unpopular . And in nearly all countries , there is considerable opposition to a major component of the Obama administration 's anti-terrorism policy : drone strikes . In 17 of 20 countries , more than half disapprove of U.S. drone attacks targeting extremist leaders and groups in nations such as Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia .
Compared with the Clinton years , Democrats today are much more inclined to support increased government help for the poor . Indeed , nearly three-quarters of Democrats ( 72 % ) now believe the government should help more needy people even if it means going deeper into debt .
A milestone is expected to be reached this fall when minorities outnumber whites among the nation 's public school students for the first time , U.S. Department of Education projections show . This is due largely to fast growth in the number of Hispanic and Asian school-age children born in the U.S. , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data . A steady demographic change over the years has resulted in a decline in the number of whites in classrooms even as the total number of public school students has increased . In 1997 , the U.S. had 46.1 million public school students , of which 63.4 % were white . While whites will still outnumber any single racial or ethnic group this fall , their overall share of the nation 's 50 million public school students is projected to drop to 49.7 % . Since 1997 , the number of white students has declined by 15 % , falling from 29.2 million to 24.9 million in 2014 . While the number of white students has declined , there have been large enrollment increases of Hispanics and Asians , two groups that have seen overall population growth . Since 1997 , the number of Hispanic students nearly doubled to 12.9 million , and the number of Asians jumped 46 % to 2.6 million . The number of black students expected in schools this fall , 7.7 million , has been relatively steady during this time .
While it 's hard to say whose account is the most accurate when it comes to how parenting and household responsibilities are shared , an analysis of the American Time Use Survey ( ATUS ) data provides a glimpse into how full-time working moms and dads spend their time . This analysis shows that while full-time working moms spend more time than full-time working dads on parenting and household tasks , the difference is modest . For example , mothers who work full time spend an average of 11.9 hours per week , or 1.7 hours per day , on housework , compared with 1.2 hours per day among fathers who work full time .
Across most nations surveyed , confidence ratings for Barack Obama are high . This includes over 80 % confidence in his ability to handle international affairs from people in Sweden , the Netherlands , Germany , France , Australia and Canada . Confidence in Obama 's international abilities is lower in China ( 52 % ) than in most of the other countries surveyed , but it is still positive . Meanwhile , Greeks are the most negative toward Obama , with 58 % expressing no confidence in his ability to handle world affairs .
Some had difficulties with their tablets . Pew Research Center surveys have shown over time that later adopters of the internet often say they need help with their new devices . Not surprisingly , a share of these new users struggled with the device . Seven-in-ten called tech support to get help with the tablet , and 43 % experienced login or password issues . Nearly a third ( 32 % ) reported that it was a challenge learning how to use the touch screen . And 14 % said it was a challenge to keep the tablet charged .
There continue to be wide political differences on energy priorities . While a 2016 Pew Research Center survey found large majorities of Democrats and Republicans supported expanding both wind and solar energy , the new survey shows that Democrats remain far more likely than Republicans to stress that developing alternative energy should take priority over developing fossil fuel sources . About eight-in-ten ( 81 % ) Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party favor developing alternative sources instead of expanding production from fossil fuel sources . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are closely divided : 45 % say the more important priority should be developing alternative sources , while 44 % say expanding production of oil , coal and natural gas should be given more priority .
Democratic voters are ideologically divided over going after big banks . For the most part , Democrats are less ideologically divided than Republicans in their views of possible candidate positions . But among possible Democratic primary voters who are liberal , 60 % say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to reduce the size of large banks and financial institutions ; just 38 % of moderate and conservative Democratic voters say the same . Liberal Democratic voters also are far more likely than conservatives or moderates to express a positive view of a candidate who backs the Iran nuclear deal ( 53 % vs. 31 % ) . But comparable percentages of liberals ( 44 % ) and conservatives and moderates ( 45 % ) say they would be more likely to vote for a candidate who wants to expand trade agreements . Hillary Clinton recently announced she does not support the Trans-Pacific Partnership , a trade pact negotiated by the Obama administration with a dozen Pacific nations . Clinton 's main rival , Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont , also opposes the TPP .
It turns out that , in 2013 , people with adjusted gross incomes above $ 250,000 paid nearly half ( 48.9 % ) of the U.S. 's total individual income taxes , though they accounted for only 2.4 % of all returns filed .
When asked what they think their own house of worship should be doing , the survey finds substantial differences between Republican and Democratic religious attenders – but majorities in both groups favor some level of caution about the virus . ( In this analysis , regular attenders are those who said before the pandemic that they typically attend services at least once or twice a month , as well as those who attended in person in the last month prior to when the survey was conducted July 13 to 19 . ) Among regularly attending Democrats , 44 % think their house of worship should not be open to the public at all – much larger than the share of Republicans who say the same ( 16 % ) . But most Republican attenders ( 64 % ) say that their house of worship should be open with precautions in place due to the coronavirus outbreak , such as requiring that congregants remain 6 feet apart or wear masks , or limiting the number of people who can attend at one time . About half of Democratic congregants ( 48 % ) prefer this approach .
Three-quarters ( 74 % ) believe that U.S. airstrikes in Syria are likely to create a backlash against the United States and its allies in the region and 61 % think it would be likely to lead to a long-term U.S. military commitment there . Meanwhile , just 33 % believe airstrikes are likely to be effective in discouraging the use of chemical weapons ; roughly half ( 51 % ) think they are not likely to achieve this goal .
For the first time since George W. Bush 's presidency , Republicans ( 28 % ) are more likely than Democrats ( 15 % ) to say they can trust the government in Washington to do the right thing just about always or most of the time . The national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted April 5 - 11 among 1,501 adults , finds that the overall level of trust in government remains near historic lows ; just 20 % say they trust the government to do what 's right always or most of the time . Far more say they trust the government only some of the time ( 68 % ) ; 11 % volunteer that they never trust the government to do what 's right .
Much of the recent growth in the foreign-born black population has been fueled by African migration . Between 2000 and 2016 , the black African immigrant population more than doubled , from 574,000 to 1.6 million . Africans now make up 39 % of the overall foreign-born black population , up from 24 % in 2000 . Still , roughly half of all foreign-born blacks living in the U.S. in 2016 ( 49 % ) were from the Caribbean , with Jamaica and Haiti being the largest source countries .
Nearly 14 % of the U.S. population was born in another country , numbering more than 44 million people in 2017 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . This was the highest share of foreign-born people in the United States since 1910 , when immigrants accounted for 14.7 % of the American population . The record share was 14.8 % in 1890 , when 9.2 million immigrants lived in the United States .
And one more digital gap exists between China and India : social media use . Six-in-ten Chinese say they use social media , compared with only 14 % of Indians . Much of this disparity is due to the fact that more people have access to the internet in China . Nearly two-thirds of Indians with internet access ( 65 % ) say they use social media . Still , this figure among the Chinese is 84 % and has increased sharply since we first began asking the question in 2013 .
About a third ( 34 % ) say they followed stories about the continued attempts by pirates to hijack ships more closely than any other story last week , while 27 % say they followed stories about the U.S. economy most closely . More than half of the public ( 52 % ) says they followed economic news very closely , while about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they followed news about the pirates very closely . In terms of coverage , a separate content analysis by Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism finds that stories about the economic crisis took up 18 % of the newshole last week , stories about the pirates took up 16 % and stories about the tea party protests took up 7 % . The protest stories made up a significantly larger share – 14 % – of the cable network newshole . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed the tea party protests more closely than any other story , while just more than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they followed the protests very closely .
Americans have differing views about some emerging scientific and technological developments . Scientific and technological developments are a key source of innovation and , therefore , change in society . Pew Research Center studies have explored public reactions to emergent developments from genetic engineering techniques , automation and more . One field at the forefront of public reaction is the use of gene editing of babies or genetic engineering of animals . Americans have mixed views over whether the use of gene editing to reduce a baby 's risk of serious disease that could occur over their lifetime is appropriate ( 60 % ) or is taking medical technology too far ( 38 % ) , according to a 2018 survey . Similarly , about six-in-ten Americans ( 57 % ) said that genetic engineering of animals to grow organs or tissues for humans needing a transplant would be appropriate , while four-in-ten ( 41 % ) said it would be taking technology too far .
About three-in-ten Latino Democratic voters ( 31 % ) say they have given a lot of thought to who is running for president in 2020 , and a similar share of Republican voters say the same . Comparable shares of Democrats ( 43 % ) and Republicans ( 46 % ) say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year than in previous presidential elections .
About three-quarters ( 76 % ) see the size of the national debt as a major threat to the economic well being of the United States , the highest of five issues tested . A smaller majority ( 59 % ) sees economic competition from China as a major threat , and about as many ( 56 % ) say the same about the power of financial institutions and banks . Only about half ( 46 % ) say the economic problems in Europe pose a major threat to the U.S. economy , and 44 % see government regulation of business as a major threat .
Nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say they have an excellent or good impression of their party 's presidential candidates . That compares with 54 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters who have positive impressions of the Democratic Party 's candidates . Republicans are more positive about the GOP field than they were at nearly comparable points in the past two presidential campaigns . In May 2011 , 44 % of Republicans viewed the field of GOP candidates as excellent or good . In September 2007 , 50 % gave the presidential candidates positive marks .
Across the eight quarters of 2005 and 2006 , the annual increase in the Mexican immigrant population averaged 495,000 persons ( Figure 2 ) . To arrive at this estimate , each of the four quarters of 2005 were compared to the same quarters in 2004 , and the four quarters of 2006 were compared to the same quarters in 2005 . In other words , new immigration from Mexico , net of return migration and other smaller factors added an average of 495,000 people a year measured on a quarterly basis across the whole of 2005 and 2006 . However , in the first quarter of 2007 the annual growth since the first quarter of 2006 dropped to 288,000 persons .
The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults , finds only modest changes since last year in perceptions of these threats , but there are a few notable exceptions . Last April , just 42 % viewed `` tensions with Russia '' as a major threat ; today , 54 % say the same about `` Russia 's power and influence . '' The largest change in partisan views of global threats is seen in assessments of Russia . Currently , Democrats are 26 percentage points more likely than Republicans to say Russia 's power and influence is a major threat to the well-being of the United States ( 67 % vs. 41 % ) . As recently as last April , before the allegations that Russia hacked Hillary Clinton 's campaign and the Democratic National Committee , Republicans were somewhat more likely than Democrats to view tensions with Russia as a major threat ( 46 % of Republicans vs. 37 % of Democrats ) . ( For more on views of Russia and the alleged hacking , including ratings of Vladimir Putin , see : `` U.S. public sees Russian role in campaign hacking , but is divided over new sanctions , '' released Jan. 10 , 2017 )
About half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) now say they would definitely or probably get a vaccine to prevent COVID-19 if it were available today ; nearly as many ( 49 % ) say they definitely or probably would not get vaccinated at this time . Intent to get a COVID-19 vaccine has fallen from 72 % in May , a 21 percentage point drop .
The comment period officially opened on April 27 , and only 453 comments were submitted on that day . On Sunday , May 7 , two major events occurred that coincided with a significant increase in submissions . That evening , comedian John Oliver broadcasted a nearly `` > 20-minute segment on his HBO show Last Week Tonight defending net neutrality and encouraging his viewers to submit comments supporting his position . The last time the FCC considered net neutrality in 2014 , a Pew Research Center analysis showed that John Oliver 's program also led to a spike in the number of comments submitted . Also on May 7 , the FCC issued a news release stating that a distributed denial of service attack ( DDoS ) occurred against the electronic filing system . Some critics have questioned whether an actual DDoS attack occurred , noting that the FCC did not provide documentation regarding the attack following a Freedom of Information Act request by the website Gizmodo . And two Democratic members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee have since requested an investigation into the matter . In response to this surge of submissions , the FCC released a public notice on May 11 that announced a `` sunshine period '' for the week spanning May 12 - 18 in which the FCC would temporarily stop taking public comments due to the large number of submissions . According to the FCC 's statement :
While texting , talking , emailing and going online dominate , a majority of Americans also use their smartphones for social networking , taking photos or videos , and catching up with the news . A vast majority of smartphone owners say they used their phone for text messaging , voice and video calling , email and accessing the internet at least once over a weeklong `` experience sampling '' study . Besides these four activities , other smartphone apps were also popular . Three-quarters of smartphone owners reported using their phone for social media , while 60 % took pictures or a video , and more than half ( 55 % ) got news on their smartphone at least once over the course of the one-week survey period .
The number of assaults against Muslims in the United States rose significantly between 2015 and 2016 , easily surpassing the modern peak reached in 2001 , the year of the September 11 terrorist attacks , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of new hate crimes statistics from the FBI . In 2016 , there were 127 reported victims of aggravated or simple assault , compared with 91 the year before and 93 in 2001 .
Some 30 % of Americans say they have ever used an online dating site or app . Out of those who have used these platforms , 18 % say they are currently using them , while an additional 17 % say they are not currently doing so but have used them in the past year . Experience with online dating varies substantially by age . While 48 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say they have ever used a dating site or app , that share is 38 % among 30- to 49-year-olds , and it is even smaller among those ages 50 and older . Still , online dating is not completely foreign to those in their 50s or early 60s : 19 % of adults ages 50 to 64 say they have used a dating site or app .
Puzzle and strategy games are the most popular genres among those who often or sometimes play video games . Around six-in-ten of these adults play puzzle and strategy games ( 62 % play each type ) , according to the 2017 survey . Meanwhile , 49 % play adventure games , 42 % play shooter games , 39 % play role-playing games , 33 % play team sport or racing games and 32 % play simulation games . Women who often or sometimes play video games are more likely than men to play puzzle games ( 72 % vs. 52 % ) . This genre is also more popular among game players ages 65 and older than among those ages 18 to 29 ( 74 % and 56 % of whom , respectively , play puzzle games ) .
In the Americas , majorities of Catholics in several countries said society should be accepting of homosexuality . That was the case in Canada , where almost nine-in-ten Catholics ( 87 % ) took this view , as well as in Argentina ( 80 % ) , the U.S. ( 76 % ) , Mexico ( 72 % ) and Brazil ( 71 % ) . Other countries around the world where most Catholics said society should be accepting of homosexuality included Spain ( 91 % ) , Australia ( 81 % ) , the Philippines ( 80 % ) and South Africa ( 62 % ) .
The wage gap between young workers with college degrees and their less-educated counterparts is the widest in decades . Despite the pressures of academic life , soaring college costs and burdensome student loans , young college graduates were better off than their degreeless peers on many measures of economic well-being and career attainment , and to a greater extent than in the past . The Center 's most recent analysis found that the median salary for college graduates ages 25 to 37 working full time earned was about $ 24,700 more annually than employed young adults holding only a high school diploma . The pay gap was significantly smaller in previous generations .
In today 's Poland , most adults say they are willing to accept Jews as fellow citizens , neighbors and family members , according to a Pew Research Center survey of Poland and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe conducted in 2015 and 2016 . For instance , about seven-in-ten or more Poles say they would accept Jews as neighbors or fellow citizens . At the same time , however , a sizable minority of Polish adults take the opposite position . Almost one-in-five Poles ( 18 % ) say they would not be willing to accept Jews as citizens of their country , and a similar share ( 20 % ) say they would not want Jewish neighbors . Nearly a third of Polish adults ( 30 % ) say they would not accept a Jewish person as a member of their family . Polish views are more negative when it comes to two other minority groups in Europe : Muslims and Roma ( sometimes called Romani or Gypsies , a term some consider pejorative ) . Roughly four-in-ten or more Polish adults say they would not want Muslims to be citizens of their country ( 41 % ) , their neighbors ( 43 % ) or members of their family ( 55 % ) . Likewise , at least three-in-ten Poles would not accept Roma as fellow citizens ( 30 % ) , neighbors ( 38 % ) or family members ( 49 % ) .
For example , results from this survey show that people 's comfort with or likelihood of engaging with the contact tracing and isolation process ( speak , share , quarantine ) rises with increased awareness of contact tracing . Some 63 % of those who had seen or heard a great deal about contact tracing as of July say they would be comfortable or likely to engage with all three parts of the contact tracing effort that we explore here : that is , speaking with a public health official by phone or text message , sharing names of contacts and names of locations or location data , and quarantining . In contrast , 35 % of those who have seen or heard not too much say they would do the same , and only 29 % of those who 've seen or heard nothing at all say this . Finally , those who think others often pretend to be someone else to steal others ' personal information are less likely to be comfortable or likely to engage with these key contract tracing and isolation steps . Roughly four-in-ten of those who say that people often pretend to be someone else to steal others ' personal information say they are also comfortable or likely to engage with the entire process , compared with about half of those who say people sometimes do this ( 52 % ) or rarely or never do this ( 51 % ) .
Opinions are more divided in Jordan and Nigeria . Half of Jordanian Muslims favor gender segregation and 44 % oppose it . Among Nigerian Muslims , nearly the same percentage favor making segregation of men and women in the workplace the law in their country ( 49 % ) as oppose it ( 48 % ) .
A third of the public ( 33 % ) says they followed news about military air strikes in Libya by the U.S. and its allies very closely last week . By contrast , 50 % say they followed news about the aftermath of the Japanese disasters very closely . The survey was completed before President Obama addressed the nation Monday night about the mission in Libya . The current level of interest in Libya is no higher than interest in news about the nation 's economy ( 36 % very closely ) . But economic news accounted for only 6 % of coverage . In other news , 11 % say they followed news about the death of actress Elizabeth Taylor very closely ; 3 % say this was their top story . News about the movie star 's death accounted for 7 % of coverage . Similar percentages followed news about the 2012 presidential candidates , though this story received less coverage ; 13 % say they followed news about the elections very closely , while 2 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the early positioning garnered just 2 % of coverage .
Overall , 19 % of the public has a great deal of confidence that the research and development process in the U.S. will produce a safe and effective vaccine for COVID-19 , while another 45 % say they have a fair amount of confidence . About a third ( 35 % ) say they have not too much or no confidence in this process . Among those who say they would definitely or probably get a vaccine , more than eight-in-ten express either a great deal ( 30 % ) or a fair amount ( 54 % ) of confidence in the research and development process . By contrast , 55 % of those not planning to get a coronavirus vaccine say they have not too much or no confidence at all in this process .
Both Republicans and GOP-leaning independents ( 94 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 92 % ) overwhelmingly see strong conflicts between the two parties , and seven-in-ten or more in both parties say they are very strong ( 75 % of Republicans and 71 % of Democrats ) . Liberal Democrats are more likely to say the conflicts are very strong than moderate and conservative Democrats ( 75 % vs. 66 % ) . Similarly , conservative Republicans more often say this than moderate and liberal Republicans ( 80 % vs. 65 % ) . Americans are now substantially more likely to see very strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans than they were in the past . When the Center first asked the question in December 2012 , 47 % of Americans characterized partisan conflicts as very strong . Four years later , in December 2016 , 56 % said this , and 71 % see these conflicts as very strong today .
Blacks are more likely than either whites or Hispanics to say voting should be made as easy as possible for citizens : 79 % of blacks say this , while just 19 % say citizens should have to prove they really want to vote by registering ahead of time . Among whites , a much narrower majority ( 54 % ) support making voting as easy as possible for all citizens ( 44 % say citizens should prove they want to vote by registering ahead of time ) . By 64 % -35 % , most Hispanics support taking steps to make voting easy for all citizens .
Children ages 11 and younger also engage with Instagram , though not as much as with other sites . Despite most social media sites having age guidelines in place , which usually restrict children younger than 13 from joining , some 5 % of parents of a child age 11 or younger say that , as far as they know , their child uses Instagram , according to a 2020 survey . When considering only children ages 9 to 11 , however , this share increases to 11 % . Platforms like TikTok and Snapchat are more popular than Instagram among children 11 and younger , according to their parents .
The most common racial or ethnic pairing among newlywed intermarried couples is one Hispanic and one white spouse ( 42 % ) . The next most common intermarriage pairings are one white and one Asian spouse ( 15 % ) . Some 12 % of newlywed intermarried couples include one white and one multiracial spouse , and 11 % include one white and one black spouse .
China 's economic growth has slowed in recent quarters , and the U.S. stock market logged one of its worst first quarters in history amid the spread of COVID-19 . Even though unemployment surged in the U.S. throughout the March field period , marking the worst period for jobs since the 2008 recession , Americans ' sense that the U.S. is the world 's top economy has grown precipitously . Today , when asked to choose between the U.S. , China , Japan and the countries of the European Union as the world 's leading economic power , 59 % of Americans choose their own country , up from 50 % last year . This is both the largest share to name the U.S. and the largest year-on-year increase since the question was first asked in 2008 . Only three-in-ten name China , and this is largely unchanged over recent years .
28 % of the unique videos in this dataset were recommended multiple times over the study period . A majority of the recommended videos in this dataset were recommended just a single time . But 98,508 videos ( or 28 % of the total ) were recommended more than once over the study period , suggesting that the recommendation algorithm points viewers to a consistent set of videos with some regularity . In fact , a small number of these videos ( 134 in total ) were recommended more than 100 times .
Most Americans continue to say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy ( 60 % ) , but the number that says they have been hearing mostly negative news about the economy is up eight points since early March when it matched an earlier low . At that point , 24 % said they were hearing mostly bad news about the economy . That rose to 30 % in early April and now stands at 32 % . The relatively small number hearing mostly good news has dropped from 11 % in April and March to 6 % in the current survey .
The latest estimates of telephone coverage , released last week by the National Center for Health Statistics , found that 25 % of households ( and 23 % of adults ) in the second half of 2009 had no landline service and only cell phone service ( just 2 % of households had no telephone service of any type ) . For certain subgroups in the population , the numbers are considerably higher : 30 % of Hispanics are cell-only , as are 49 % of adults ages 25 - 29 .
Blacks and Hispanics are underrepresented in the STEM workforce . Overall , blacks and Hispanics are underrepresented in the STEM workforce relative to their shares in the U.S. workforce as a whole . This underrepresentation is evident across all STEM job clusters , with one exception : 11 % of health care practitioners and technicians are black , similar to the share of blacks in the total workforce .
Mexican immigrants have been at the center of one of the largest mass migrations in modern history . Between 1965 and 2015 more than 16 million Mexican immigrants migrated to the United States – more than from any other country ( Pew Research Center , 2015 ) . In 1970 , fewer than 1 million Mexican immigrants lived in the U.S. By 2000 , that number had grown to 9.4 million , and by 2007 it reached a peak at 12.8 million . Since then , the Mexican-born population has declined , falling to 11.7 million in 2014 , as the number of new arrivals to the U.S. from Mexico declined significantly ; meanwhile the reverse flow to Mexico from the U.S. is now higher .
Of course , it 's one thing to say your representative does n't deserve to be re-elected , or even that you 're open to voting him or her out , and actually doing so . Historically , Americans have been more favorably disposed toward their own representatives than to Congress as a whole ( a phenomenon dubbed `` Fenno 's Paradox , '' after eminent political scientist Richard Fenno ) . That disjuncture that has been reflected in typically high re-election rates . On average , in each of the seven House elections between 1978 and 1990 ( inclusive ) , fewer than 20 representatives were defeated for re-election .
Regression analysis shows , as did similar analyses earlier in the year , that – partisan affiliations aside – judgments about the national job situation are most highly correlated with judgments about the overall economy . Close behind in independent importance are one 's own personal financial situation and views about the stock market .
Indeed , the prevailing view in Russia , Ukraine , Lithuania , Slovakia , Bulgaria and Hungary is that people were better off economically under communism . Only in the Czech Republic and Poland do pluralities believe that most people are now better off . Furthermore , the consensus in many of these countries is that ordinary people have benefited far less than have business owners and politicians .
While perceptions of influence are subjective , there 's clearly more money in the U.S. political system now than at any time since the campaign finance reforms of the 1970s , according to a new Pew Research Center data analysis of contributions and spending . That 's the case whether you look at presidential , House or Senate elections . Last year 's midterm Senate election was the costliest ever – or at least since 1974 , when modern disclosure rules kicked in . The 2014 election featured several competitive races , the outcomes of which would determine control of the Senate ; Democrats and Republicans fought – and spent – fiercely . According to our analysis of Campaign Finance Institute data , nearly $ 1.1 billion was spent on 2014 's Senate races by candidates , parties and outside groups , 25 % more than in the previous off-year cycle of 2010 . The biggest increase was in non-party independent expenditures , which soared from $ 105.6 million ( inflation-adjusted ) to $ 387.3 million . But despite all that money and attention , voter turnout in last year 's Senate elections did n't increase ; in fact , it was the lowest since 1990 . We calculated turnout using estimates of the voting-eligible population ( all citizens of voting age , at home and abroad , excepting ineligible felons ) made by University of Florida political scientist Michael McDonald . Only about 44 million people voted for Senate in 2014 , according to tabulations published by the House Clerk 's office – 38 % of the voting-eligible population in those states with Senate elections .
The negotiations between the U.S. and North Korea are resonating more among Republicans than Democrats . More than half ( 54 % ) of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they have heard a lot about the U.S.-North Korea talks , compared with 39 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
Within China there have been several high-profile recalls of Chinese-made products over the last year . However , relatively few among the Chinese public are aware of these domestic recalls . Only 1 % have heard a lot about this issue , while another 15 % say they have heard a little . About four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they have not heard much and 27 % report hearing nothing at all .
Christians , Muslims , Hindus , Buddhists , Jews and the religiously unaffiliated around the world are distributed in different ways across household types and sizes . And there are noticeable variations among these groups within regions and even within single countries . Worldwide , Muslims live in the biggest households . The average Muslim lives in a home of 6.4 people , followed by Hindus ( 5.7 ) , Christians ( 4.5 ) , Buddhists ( 3.9 ) , the religiously unaffiliated – also known as `` nones '' ( 3.7 ) – and Jews ( 3.7 ) . In the 15 countries in the study that have the world 's biggest households , Islam is the largest religion in all but one ( Benin ) , and these nations are all in Africa , the Middle East and Asia . Christians and the religiously unaffiliated are the largest groups in the 15 countries with the smallest households , which are all in Europe , with the exception of South Korea . For all people , households are biggest in sub-Saharan Africa ( 6.9 ) and smallest in Europe ( 3.1 ) .
Pew Research Center will increase the percentage of respondents interviewed on cellphones from 65 % to 75 % in most of its 2016 telephone surveys . We 're making this change to ensure our survey samples properly represent the now roughly half ( 47 % ) of U.S. adults whose only phone is a cellphone .
New Zealand has some of the lowest levels of government restrictions on religion in the world , with a score in 2016 of just 0.48 out of 10 on Pew Research Center 's Government Restrictions Index ( GRI ) . Still , while New Zealand 's GRI score has been low since we first began measuring it in 2007 , it did tick upwards slightly in 2016 . This recent increase is due in part to derogatory statements made by Winston Peters , leader of the New Zealand First Party , when he said in June 2016 that certain countries `` treat their women like cattle , '' and suggested that all immigrants should be screened for unacceptable attitudes before being permitted to enter the country . Some media reports said he specifically referred to Muslim immigrants , which he denied . New Zealand had `` low '' levels of social hostilities involving religion in 2016 ( with a Social Hostilities Index score of 0.9 out of 10 ) . There have been incidents of religiously motivated violence and hostilities in the past , although these cases have been relatively rare . In September 2016 , for example , the Whanganui branch of the Right Wing Resistance , a right wing organization , circulated pamphlets that accused Muslim refugees in the country of intending to change the culture of New Zealand to suit themselves and to `` kill anyone '' who did not believe in God .
At home and abroad , the public reacted strongly to the White House 's new occupant and his policies . Confidence in the U.S. president plummeted in many countries , particularly in Western Europe , while opinions of America itself also declined sharply . In the U.S. , already-wide partisan gaps on fundamental political values grew even wider . A fraught relationship between Trump and the press drew frequent attention , with large majorities seeing it as unhealthy and an impediment to Americans ' ability to access important political news . And , as the country began to adjust to this new era , substantial shares in both parties – particularly women – said they were paying more attention to politics since Trump 's election .
Americans are more racially and ethnically diverse than in the past , and the U.S. is projected to be even more diverse in the coming decades . By 2055 , the U.S. will not have a single racial or ethnic majority . Much of this change has been ( and will be ) driven by immigration . Nearly 59 million immigrants have arrived in the U.S. in the past 50 years , mostly from Latin America and Asia . Today , a near-record 14 % of the country 's population is foreign born compared with just 5 % in 1965 . Over the next five decades , the majority of U.S. population growth is projected to be linked to new Asian and Hispanic immigration . American attitudes about immigration and diversity are supportive of these changes for the most part . More Americans say immigrants strengthen the country than say they burden it , and most say the U.S. 's increasing ethnic diversity makes it a better place to live . Asia has replaced Latin America ( including Mexico ) as the biggest source of new immigrants to the U.S . In a reversal of one of the largest mass migrations in modern history , net migration flows from Mexico to the U.S. turned negative between 2009 and 2014 , as more Mexicans went home than arrived in the U.S. And after rising steadily since 1990 , the unauthorized immigrant population has leveled off in recent years , falling to 11.3 million in 2014 from a high of 12.2 million in 2007 . Meanwhile , Asians are now the only major racial or ethnic group whose numbers are rising mainly because of immigration . And while African immigrants make up a small share of the U.S. immigrant population , their numbers are also growing steadily – roughly doubling every decade since 1970 .
Scientists ' overall assessments of the field , while still mostly positive , are less upbeat than they were in 2009 when Pew Research conducted a previous survey of AAAS members . Today , about half of AAAS scientists ( 52 % ) say this is good time for science , down 24 percentage points from three-quarters ( 76 % ) in 2009 . Scientists are more positive , by comparison , when it comes to the state of their scientific specialty . But here , too , scientists are less rosy in their assessments than five years ago : 62 % of AAAS scientists say this is a good time for their specialty area , down 11 percentage points from 2009 . Some 59 % of AAAS scientists say this is a good or very good time to begin a career in their specialty , down from 67 % in 2009 . Assessments about the state of their specialty for new entrants is about the same as 2009 for those focused on applied research ( 71 % in 2009 and 69 % today say it a good or very good time ) , but it is down 15 percentage points among those doing basic research , from 63 % in 2009 to 48 % today saying this is a good or very good time to begin a career in their specialty area .
An estimated 5.1 million Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin resided in the 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia in 2013 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of the Census Bureau 's American Community Survey . That is a substantially greater number than the population of Puerto Rico itself , which was 3.6 million in 2013 and has been in decline for the past few years largely due to out-migration . As a result , the number of Puerto Rican-origin Hispanics living in the 50 states and the District of Columbia has exceeded the number of people of Puerto Rican ancestry living on the island of Puerto Rico at least since 2005 . Puerto Ricans in this statistical profile are people who self-identified as Hispanics of Puerto Rican origin ; this means either they themselves were born in Puerto Rico1 or they were born in the 50 U.S. states , the District of Columbia or elsewhere , but trace their family ancestry to Puerto Rico . This statistical profile focuses on the characteristics of Puerto Rican-origin Hispanics residing in the 50 states and the District of Columbia .
In recent years , these platforms have provided new arenas for national conversations about race and racial inequality . Some researchers and activists credit social media – in particular , Black Twitter – with propelling racially focused issues to greater national attention . In fact , two of the most used hashtags around social causes in Twitter history focus on race and criminal justice : # Ferguson and # BlackLivesMatter . In addition to social and political issues , social media also serve as places where conversations about race intersect with a number of issues , including pop culture , sports and everyday personal experiences . A new Pew Research Center survey finds significant differences in the way black and white adults use social media to share and interact with race-related content1 And a Pew Research Center analysis of tweets reveals that key news events – from Baltimore , to Charleston , South Carolina , to Dallas – often serve as a catalyst for social media conversations about race . Black social media users ( 68 % ) are roughly twice as likely as whites ( 35 % ) to say that at least some of the posts they see on social networking sites are about race or race relations . When it comes to their own postings , a similar racial gap exists . Among black social media users , 28 % say most or some of what they post is about race or race relations ; 8 % of whites say the same . On the other hand , roughly two-thirds ( 67 % ) of whites who use social media say that none of things they post or share pertain to race .
The partisan gap in national satisfaction today is comparable to previous time periods . As a rule , satisfaction is higher among members of the president 's party . Since 1990 , Democrats were significantly more satisfied with national conditions than Republicans during both the Clinton and Obama administration , while Republicans were significantly more satisfied under both Bush administrations . Looking at yearly averages , the partisan gap reached a peak in 2004 , when 65 % of Republicans were satisfied , compared with just 17 % of Democrats . So far in 2011 , the partisan divide is much smaller : an average of 32 % of Democrats and 14 % of Republicans have expressed satisfaction during the first three months of this year .
Among those who often or sometimes have contact with immigrants who speak little or no English , fewer say this bothers them today ( 26 % ) than did so in 2006 ( 38 % ) or in the 1990s .
France 's Comeback : A separate survey by the Pew Global Attitudes Project finds that France 's image has improved substantially in recent years . Fully 62 % of the public says they have a favorable opinion of France , up from just 29 % in May 2003 , during tensions over France 's opposition to the Iraq war .
Fewer than four-in-ten ( 37 % ) support gay marriage , while 55 % are opposed . Support dipped to 29 % in an August 2004 poll , after peaking at 38 % in July 2003 . Since 2004 , support has fluctuated between 33 % and 39 % . Gay marriage is opposed by most groups in the population ; exceptions include young people ages 18 - 29 ( 56 % support ) , liberal Democrats ( 72 % ) , and secular individuals ( 60 % ) . Democrats continue to be divided on the question ( 49 % support , 43 % oppose ) ; Republicans overwhelmingly oppose gay marriage ( 75 % vs. 20 % support ) , with 51 % strongly opposed .
While highly ideological members of Congress tend to use their Facebook posts to criticize political opponents and support their allies , moderate lawmakers are more likely to concentrate on local issues in their outreach on the platform , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis covering Jan. 1 , 2015 , to Dec. 31 , 2017 .
Six-in-ten Americans say that if the government tracked people 's locations through their cellphone , it would n't make much of a difference in limiting the spread of COVID-19 , according a survey of U.S. adults conducted April 7 to 12 . Smaller shares of Americans say it would help a lot ( 16 % ) or help a little ( 22 % ) .
Positive sentiment towards President Erdogan has declined significantly in the past year . Before the first round of parliamentary elections in June , only 39 % of Turks had a favorable view of Erdogan . About half ( 51 % ) held a negative view of the former prime minister and de facto ruler of the country . That compares with last year when 51 % of Turks had a positive view of Erdogan and in 2013 when he had 62 % support .
Nearly two-thirds of American adults ( 65 % ) use social networking sites , up from 7 % when Pew Research Center began systematically tracking social media usage in 2005 . Pew Research reports have documented in great detail how the rise of social media has affected such things as work , politics and political deliberation , communications patterns around the globe , as well as the way people get and share information about health , civic life , news consumption , communities , teenage life , parenting , dating and even people 's level of stress . A special analysis of 27 national surveys of Americans across the past decade documents this substantial spread of technology throughout the population , although the overall number of users of social networking sites has leveled off since 2013.1 At the same time , there continues to be growth in social media usage among some groups that were not among the earliest adopters , including older Americans .
On the eve of the Iowa caucuses , Rudy Giuliani 's once solid lead in nationwide polling of Republican voters has vanished . The latest nationwide survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press finds about equal levels of support for John McCain ( 22 % ) , Rudy Giuliani ( 20 % ) , and Mike Huckabee ( 17 % ) .
For most voters , `` electability '' matters less than issue positions . Political pundits often focus on the `` electability '' of candidates – how they might fare in a general election contest . But in September , majorities of voters in both parties said it was more important for a candidate to share their positions on the issues . Two-thirds of both Republican ( 67 % ) and Democratic ( 65 % ) registered voters said it was more important for a candidate to share their positions on issues than it was for a candidate to have the best chance of defeating the other party 's nominee .
The governor 's arrest , based on information gathered from a federal wiretap investigation , led all news coverage last week , accounting for 28 % of the newshole , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . The scandal was the top story in three sectors ( online , radio and cable TV ) , making up 44 % of all cable news coverage . The Blagojevich case surpassed the level of weekly news coverage devoted to Spitzer ( 23 % ) when that story broke earlier this year . Republicans and Democrats were about equally likely to have paid very close attention to the Blagojevich arrest ( 34 % vs. 29 % ) . While the Blagojevich scandal dominated news coverage , many Americans remained focused on the nation 's economic crisis and news about a potential multi-billion government bailout for the U.S. auto industry . A majority ( 51 % ) followed economic news very closely . About one-in-four ( 24 % ) named economic news as the story they followed most closely . Four-in-ten ( 40 % ) say they followed news about the auto industry bailout very closely , while 24 % list this as their top story . By comparison , 29 % followed the Blagojevich scandal very closely and just 14 % say it was the story they followed most closely . Following the extensive Blagojevich coverage , press accounts favored news about government assistance to the automakers ( 18 % of all news ) over reports about the economy ( 11 % ) . In other news , slightly more than two-in-ten ( 22 % ) paid very close attention to the discovery of remains in Florida that could be those of missing toddler Caylee Anthony . For 13 % of the public , news about that discovery was their top story of the week , roughly equal to the percentage who listed the Blagojevich scandal as their top story ( 14 % ) .
The survey also found that few Indian Americans ( 10 % ) say discrimination against their community is a major problem . Nearly half ( 48 % ) see discrimination as a minor problem , while 38 % say it is not a problem at all . When asked about their personal experiences with discrimination , most Indian Americans ( 81 % ) say they have not been treated unfairly because of their national origin , but nearly a fifth ( 18 % ) say they have faced discrimination . And while a large majority of Indian Americans ( 90 % ) say they have not been called offensive names , 10 % say they have had that experience .
Most in the region worry about China 's growing military power . China 's official military budget grew by about 9 % per year over the past decade , and few of its neighbors appear to welcome the increase . In South Korea , Japan and Vietnam – countries actively engaged in disputes with China over military deployments or territory in the East and South China seas – nine-in-ten or more think China 's growing military power is a bad thing for their country . In India , even before a recent border dispute in the Himalayas , people had a negative view of Beijing by a more than three-to-one margin .
The Pew Internet Project has in the past asked about online donations to charities following major events . After 9/11 , 10 % of internet users , or about 11 million Americans , said they had at one time made an online donation . These donors did not necessarily give because of the terror attacks , but a number obviously were inspired by the attacks to make contributions . Following the Asian tsunami at the end of 2004 , 13 % of internet users , or 17 million Americans , said they had made a donation to charity online . Again , these donations were not necessarily made on behalf of tsunami relief efforts , but it was probably true that the tragedy had moved at least some new entrants into the online donor population .
A growing share of Americans say addressing climate change should be a top priority for the president and Congress , but most of the change has come among Democrats . Over the past four years , the share of Americans who say dealing with global climate change should be a top priority has increased from 38 % to 52 % . Among Democrats and independents who lean to the Democratic Party , 78 % say climate change should be a top priority , up 22 percentage points since 2016 . But among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents , there has been no statistically significant increase . Democrats are more than three times as likely as Republicans to say dealing with climate change should be a top priority ( 78 % vs. 21 % ) . The share of Americans who say global climate change is a major threat to the well-being of the United States has also increased in recent years . But on this question too , the rise in concern has come primarily among Democrats , regardless of ideology . Among both moderate and conservative Republicans there has been no statistically significant change since 2013 .
Overall , 85 % of Latino parents say they speak Spanish to their children , according to the Center 's 2015 National Survey of Latinos . Among immigrant parents , nearly all ( 97 % ) say they do this . But the share drops to 71 % among U.S.-born second-generation Latino parents ( those with at least one immigrant parent ) . And the share falls to just 49 % among third or higher generation Latino parents – those born in the U.S. to U.S.-born parents .
But there was significant variation across the countries studied . For example , in Jordan and Lebanon , both heavily affected by the Syrian refugee crisis , seven-in-ten or more said their country has been made worse by increasing diversity . In contrast , around half or more in Kenya ( 49 % ) , the Philippines ( 54 % ) , Colombia ( 66 % ) and India ( 68 % ) said their country is improved by these demographic changes . In most countries surveyed , people who interact more with those who are different from them – whether religiously , ethnically or racially – tended to be more positive toward societal diversity .
For example , in valuing people from different backgrounds , 35 % say female business leaders are better , while 3 % say male leaders are better . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) do n't see a gender difference . Similarly , 33 % say female executives do a better job considering the societal impact of business decisions while 8 % say male leaders are better at this and 58 % say there is n't any difference .
Our polling data can be further analyzed by dividing each of the four major regions into smaller subregions . For example , in the South Atlantic region – which comprises Florida and Georgia as well as North Carolina , South Carolina , Virginia and West Virginia , four states that either recently legalized gay marriage or are likely to do so soon – respondents in 2014 are divided over same-sex marriage , with 45 % in favor and 46 % opposed .
More broadly , Americans are keen on keeping U.S. hegemony in the face of the perceived threats from a rising China . Nearly three-quarters in the U.S. ( 72 % ) acknowledge that China plays a more important role in the world today compared with 10 years ago , and a third of Americans believe China , not the U.S. , is the world 's leading economic power . However , 88 % of Americans say that having the U.S. as the world 's leading power would be better for the world .
In several states , in fact , the `` alternative '' has become the norm . In 2012 , there were 12 states – including several that are battlegrounds this year – in which nontraditional voting methods accounted for more than half the total vote . In North Carolina , for instance , early and absentee voting yielded nearly 2.8 million of the state 's total 4.5 million votes . In Arizona , nearly two-thirds of the 2012 vote was cast absentee . In Florida , early and absentee balloting each accounted for well over a quarter of the total vote ; only 44 % of Florida 's voters cast their ballots in the traditional way . And in Oregon and Washington , elections already were conducted entirely by mail ( they 're being joined by Colorado starting this year ) . In the 1970s and ' 80s , states began experimenting with other types of nontraditional voting . Eliminating special residency requirements and the need for a specific excuse to vote absentee was a common first step : California , Oregon and Washington were among the first states to introduce `` no-excuse '' absentee voting . Today , 27 states and the District of Columbia offer no-excuse absentee voting , compared with just 11 in 1992 .
In the past 15 years , the percentage of women who work in newspaper newsrooms has barely budged . Women made up 36 % of all newspaper staff in 2012 ( the last year for which data are available ) , nearly unchanged from 37 % in 1998 , according to The American Society of News Editors ' annual census . Virtually the same proportion of women ( 35 % ) worked in supervisory positions in newspapers in 2012 , a number that has also barely changed since 1998 , when it was at 34 % . ( At the Times itself , four of the top nine editors currently are women , even after Abramson 's departure . ) It 's worth noting that these shares have remained the same during a period when newspaper newsrooms have been shrinking . Since 1998 , nearly 17,000 of those jobs have been lost , according to ASNE .
Overall , personal understanding of the tax law 's impact varies only modestly across demographic groups . However , those with more education feel they understand how the law might affect them better than those with less education . Partisan differences in understanding are modest : Republicans and Republican leaners ( 71 % ) are only somewhat more likely than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 65 % ) to say they understand very or somewhat well how the law might affect them .
About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy , down from 41 % in July , while the number hearing mostly good news is up from 3 % to 11 % . The percentage hearing a mix of good and bad is largely unchanged ( 59 % now ; 56 % in July ) .
Interest in the situation in Iraq also has declined . In October , before the election , 42 % of Americans said they were tracking the situation in Iraq very closely ; in the current survey , that number has dropped to 34 % , with attention down among both Democrats and Republicans .
There were wide gaps across the two major parties : 55 % of Democratic members and 34 % of Republican members made posts about the topic . In both parties , the shares of women who discussed sexual misconduct on Facebook were 30 percentage points larger than the shares of men who did so .
In the wake of the euro currency crisis , public support for the EU and the belief that European economic integration was good for one 's country had declined precipitously across Europe , reaching a low point in 2013 . But in 2015 , favorable views of the EU and faith in the efficacy of creating a single market are generally rebounding in major EU member states , according to a new survey by the Pew Research Center . And this revival in pro-EU sentiment is closely related to the public 's economic mood .
Nearly every indicator now signals a threat to newspapers . From 1950 through 1999 newspaper revenue grew seven percent a year . From 2000 through 2006 , by contrast , it has grown by just 0.5 % . Then in the first quarter of 2006 , growth was even less : 0.35 % . And though online ad revenues continue to soar , they currently account for just five percent of all newspaper company revenue . In addition to sluggish ad growth , newspapers are challenged by circulation declines , a skeptical Wall Street , ownership changes — such as Knight Ridder 's recent sale of its 32 papers — and perhaps most notably , adapting to the world of online news . In this , the third of the Pew Project for Excellence in Journalism roundtables on the future of the news media , six experts from inside the newspaper industry discuss its future , its fate , and the changes it must make to survive . The following are edited excerpts from the discussion . Read the full transcript .
Southern states have seen the most notable increase in the annual share of resettled refugees in the United States .10 About 15 years ago , about a quarter of all refugees were resettled in Southern states each year . But the share grew to become 32 % of all resettled refugees in fiscal 2015 and 29 % in fiscal 2017 .
In October , 37 % viewed the Republican Party favorably and 58 % viewed it unfavorably . The decline in favorability since then has largely come among Republicans themselves : In the current survey , 68 % of Republicans view their party positively , down from 79 % last fall . The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted April 12 - 19 among 2,008 adults , finds that Democrats have a far more favorable impression of their party than Republicans have of theirs . Nearly nine-in-ten Democrats ( 88 % ) view their party favorably , which is 20 points higher than Republicans ' ratings of the GOP ( 68 % ) . Just 28 % of independents view the Republican Party favorably , while 37 % say they have a favorable impression of the Democratic Party . Notably , just 43 % of Republican-leaning independents view the GOP favorably , while 50 % hold a negative opinion of the party .
Only 26 % say they have confidence that Obama will generally do the right thing in world affairs , while 72 % lack confidence in the American leader . Ratings for Obama have steadily declined since 2009 , when Egyptians were almost evenly divided on the newly elected American president .
Another notable and persistent trend is that non-white adult internet users have higher rates of video-sharing site use than their white counterparts , a consistent finding since 2006 . Overall , 69 % of white internet users said they had visited video-sharing sites , 13 points higher than in April 2009 , and more than double the 31 % reported when the question was first asked in December 2006.2 At the same time , 79 % of online non-whites — African-Americans , Hispanics and others – reported using video-sharing sites . That figure is 12 points higher than April 2009 , and 41 points higher than in 2006 .
In terms of specific platforms , YouTube and Facebook are the most widely used online platforms among U.S. adults , with roughly seven-in-ten Americans saying they use each site . The shares of adults who use Instagram and Snapchat are much smaller , but these platforms are especially popular with younger Americans .
Using a slightly different metric , the OECD found that the pay gap in the U.S. was about 18 % , slightly higher than the median pay gap across 26 OECD states , which was about 14 % . Countries with lower pay gaps include New Zealand and Belgium ; these nations also provide little by way of paid time off for new parents . Countries with higher pay gaps include The Czech Republic and Austria , both of which offer new parents about 10 months of paid parental leave ( this figure does not reflect unpaid leave , or paid maternity or paternity leave ) . The U.S. has no national paid family leave policy , though a bill was recently introduced in Congress proposing one . ( Some private U.S. employers offer paid leave . )
Not only that , but 57 % said the choice of a new Supreme Court justice was `` very important '' to them personally , and 24 % said it was `` somewhat important . '' In April 2010 , after Justice John Paul Stevens announced his retirement from the court , and before Obama named Elena Kagan as his replacement , just 40 % viewed the choice of a new Supreme Court justice as very important .
In Pew Research Center 's most recent knowledge quiz , just 33 % knew that there are three women on the Supreme Court – Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg , Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor . A higher percentage ( 39 % ) said that there are two women on the high court , while 14 % said there is one and 4 % said four . An August 2013 survey included the names and photos of four justices – Ginsburg , Antonin Scalia , Anthony Kennedy and Clarence Thomas – and asked which one had most often been the court 's `` swing vote . '' Despite the fact that there had been several closely divided Supreme Court cases during the 2012 - 2013 term in which Kennedy 's votes were often decisive , just 28 % correctly identified him as the swing vote . Chief Justice John Roberts is also not well-known . In July 2012 , shortly after Roberts cast the deciding vote upholding most of the Affordable Care Act , just 34 % identified Roberts as chief justice from a list that included Stephen Breyer , Harry Reid and William Rehnquist . That was not much better than the 28 % who identified Roberts from a similar list in 2010 .
Apprehensions of children and their families at the U.S.-Mexico border since October 2015 have more than doubled from a year ago and now outnumber apprehensions of unaccompanied children , a figure that also increased this year , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Customs and Border Protection data . There were 32,117 apprehensions of family members – defined as children traveling with at least one parent or guardian – during the first six months of fiscal 2016 ( October 2015 to March 2016 ) . By comparison , apprehensions of unaccompanied children totaled 27,754 over the same period . The number of family apprehensions is more than double that of the previous year . The number of apprehensions of unaccompanied children shot up by 78 % . The apprehension of more families than unaccompanied children is a reversal from summer 2014 , when thousands of children fled gang violence and poverty in Central America and migrated north to the U.S. without a parent or guardian . During the first six months of fiscal 2014 , there were 19,830 apprehensions of children and their families , compared with 28,579 apprehensions of unaccompanied children .
Among Democrats , those with high political knowledge are more than three times as likely to say they have heard about QAnon ( 85 % ) as those with low political knowledge ( 25 % ) . And though fewer Republicans overall have heard of QAnon , those with high political knowledge are more than twice as likely ( 59 % ) as those with low political knowledge ( 24 % ) to have heard at least a little about QAnon . ( You can find more details of the political knowledge index here . )
Reports of deprivation are closely related to national wealth . For example , in Australia , Canada and Germany – three of the richest countries surveyed in terms of 2012 GDP per capita – roughly one-in-ten or fewer have struggled in the past year to afford food . Meanwhile , in Uganda , Kenya and Senegal – among the poorest countries surveyed – half or more say food for their family has been hard to come by . The United States is a clear outlier from this pattern . Despite being the richest country in the survey , nearly a quarter of Americans ( 24 % ) say they had trouble putting food on the table in the past 12 months . This reported level of deprivation is closer to that in Indonesia or Greece rather than Britain or Canada .
Millennials are less religious than older Americans and less likely to identify with a religious group , and those traits are reflected in the way they celebrate Christmas . Nine-in-ten Millennials say they take part in Christmas , but only four-in-ten say they do so mainly as a religious holiday , according to a survey we conducted in 2013 . That stands in contrast to those in older generations , who in some cases are more likely to say they celebrate Christmas as a religious holiday , attend religious services for Christmas and believe Jesus Christ was born of a virgin , according to a new look at the data . Instead , 43 % of Millennials say Christmas to them is more of a cultural holiday – about as many as celebrate it as a religious holiday ( 40 % ) . By contrast , members of older generations are more likely to say they celebrate Christmas as a religious holiday . Among Baby Boomers , for example , more than twice as many see Christmas as more religious ( 56 % ) than cultural ( 26 % ) .
Brazil is well-regarded in much of the world . At least half of those surveyed in 24 of 37 countries have a favorable view of the South American nation . Views of Brazil are particularly positive in Latin America , Africa and Asia , although in many countries a fair share of people offer no opinion . However , Brazil receives low marks in some major Middle Eastern nations . In total , a median of 54 % across the 37 countries have a favorable view of Brazil . See the map below for detailed results from our Spring 2014 survey .
On his visit to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe in North Dakota today , President Obama is using his first stop at a Native American reservation while in office to highlight the challenges Native Americans face . In an op-ed published in Indian Country Today , Obama called the poverty and high school dropout rates among Native Americans `` a moral call to action . '' The poverty rate at Standing Rock Reservation is 43.2 % , nearly triple the national average , according to Census Bureau data . The reservation , which straddles North Dakota and South Dakota , has a population of 8,956 , according to the Bureau of Indian Affairs .
Topping Americans ' most favored nations list are Canada ( 81 % ) and Great Britain ( 79 % ) , long-time allies . Notably , they also see commercial competitor Japan ( 70 % ) in a positive light . Brazil , an emerging economic power , is seen favorably by 60 % although a quarter of the public had no opinion . Americans appear most divided about India , with 46 % having a favorable view and 33 % an unfavorable opinion .
American Christians are more likely than their Western European counterparts to think of themselves first in terms of their religion rather than their nationality ; 46 % of Christians in the U.S. see themselves primarily as Christians and the same number consider themselves Americans first . In contrast , majorities of Christians in France ( 90 % ) , Germany ( 70 % ) , Britain ( 63 % ) and Spain ( 53 % ) identify primarily with their nationality rather than their religion .
As Congress returns to Washington to resume work on gun control and immigration legislation , the public is paying far closer attention to news about the gun control debate than news about the debate over immigration policy . A national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted April 4 - 7 among 1,003 adults , finds 37 % say they are following the debate over gun control very closely . That compares with just 23 % who say they are very closely following news about debate over immigration policy . Among this week 's stories , only military threats made by North Korea and its plan to restart a nuclear reactor drew about as much interest ( 36 % very closely ) . In recent weeks , no story has received more public attention than the debate over gun control . Other closely followed stories since mid-March have been news about the economy ( 30 % very closely ) , news about automatic federal spending cuts ( 24 % ) and discussions about how to address the federal budget deficit and national debt ( also 24 % ) . Since the start of the year , roughly four-in-ten have followed news about the gun control debate very closely on four of five surveys on which it was included . By contrast , the debate over immigration policy has drawn very close interest from 23 % of the public both times it was included ( Jan. 31-Feb. 3 and April 4 - 7 ) .
Ukrainian opposition leader Viktor Yanukovych 's preference for closer relations between Ukraine and Russia appears consistent with public sentiment . Roughly half ( 46 % ) of the respondents in Ukraine say Russia is having a good influence on their country . Only 25 % feel that this influence is bad .
Some 84 % of American households contain at least one smartphone , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in fall 2016 . Desktop and laptop computers are nearly as common – 80 % of households contain at least one of these devices . Tablet computer ownership is somewhat less widespread , with 68 % of households containing at least one tablet . And 39 % of households contain at least one streaming media device , such as an Apple TV , Roku or Google Chromecast .
As immigrant eligible voters have grown in number since 2000 , their voter turnout rates in presidential general elections have lagged those of U.S.-born voters . In 2016 , 62 % of U.S.-born eligible voters cast a vote , compared with 54 % of foreign-born voters .
Of the individual property crimes tracked by BJS , for example , theft is the least likely to be reported to police ( possibly because it is also the most common form of property crime ) . Only 29 % of thefts were reported in 2015 . By comparison , half of household burglaries ( 51 % ) and about seven-in-ten motor vehicle thefts ( 69 % ) were reported .
In a 2004 Pew Hispanic Center/Kaiser Family Foundation survey on education , for example , immigrant Latinos took a much more favorable view of public schools in their communities than did either non-Hispanic blacks or whites . Also , the attitudes of Hispanic immigrants were much more positive than those of native-born Latinos . In addition to the immigrants ' basic optimism , this positive valuation could derive from two factors : newcomers are often comparing U.S. schools to those in their native lands , and they have also had less opportunity to be disappointed by their experiences here . ( Hispanic school children have much lower high school completion rates than do whites or blacks . )
While a Pew Research Survey last month found 67 % of Americans believe there is solid evidence of global warming and 44 % of them blame it on human activity , a global survey of 39 nations last spring found that 40 % of Americans regarded global climate change as a major threat to the U.S. By contrast , a median of 54 % or more of publics in Canada , Europe , the Asia Pacific , Latin America and Africa saw global warming as a major threat to their countries . Concern was highest in Latin America ( 65 % ) and the Asian Pacific ( 56 % ) . An opening statement at the Warsaw climate conference took particular note of the deadly typhoon that this weekend left many part of the Philippines devastated . Nearly two-thirds in the Philippines ( 66 % ) said climate change was a top concern in the spring survey . The only region in the spring survey where public concern about climate change as a danger was as low as in the U.S. was the Middle East ( 42 % ) .
Majorities of Democratic ( 78 % ) and Republican ( 74 % ) registered voters are voting straight down their party 's ticket for major races . Even among self-identified independents who are registered to vote , 65 % say they will vote a straight ticket . Independents are seven points slightly more likely to choose a straight Republican ticket than a straight Democratic ticket ( 33 % to 26 % ) . Voters who hold consistent ideological viewpoints are highly likely to vote a straight party ticket . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) with consistently conservative views choose Republican candidates down the line , while 84 % of those with consistently liberal views choose a straight Democratic ticket . Even among voters with ideologically mixed views , most ( 61 % ) still choose a slate of candidates from one party ; 18 % split their tickets between parties .
Despite satisfaction with the country 's overall direction , the Russian public still sees a bevy of problems . Among these , economic issues are the most pressing , especially inflation : 69 % say rising prices are a very big problem for Russia . An additional 25 % say inflation is a moderately big problem , meaning that 94 % of the public is concerned about the issue . Other economic issues near the top in the survey are income inequality and a lack of jobs , with 57 % of Russians saying these are very big problems . Inequality , in particular , is considered a bigger problem among Russians ages 50 and older ( 66 % say it is a very big problem ) and those whose income is below the country median ( 62 % ) . Corruption among the political elite is also a pressing concern among Russians , with 59 % saying it is a very big problem . Concern about corruption is especially common among people who lack confidence in Putin ( of whom 69 % see it as very big problem ) or do not support United Russia ( 67 % ) . Fewer Russians are concerned about corrupt business leaders ( 44 % ) .
About eight-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 81 % ) say Republican and Democratic voters disagree on basic facts of issues . A similar – albeit slightly smaller – share of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 76 % ) say the same . Just 18 % of Republicans and 23 % of Democrats say that voters of the two parties can agree on basic facts even if they disagree over policies and plans .
The partisan divide in Middle East sympathies , for Israel or the Palestinians , is now wider than at any point since 1978 . Currently , 79 % of Republicans say they sympathize more with Israel than the Palestinians , compared with just 27 % of Democrats .
Roughly one-in-four Americans ( 27 % ) followed news about the Iraq war very closely and 11 % listed this as their most closely followed story for the week . News about an earthquake that struck the Los Angeles area attracted the very close attention of 17 % of the public . Predictably , residents of the West Coast followed the story more closely than residents of other regions of the country . The earthquake , which caused little damage last week , received 2 % of all news coverage .
In the final week of the 2008 Democratic primary campaign , Obama was the top newsmaker . In all he appeared as a dominant or significant factor in 77 % of the campaign stories , according to PEJ 's Campaign Coverage Index for June 2 - 8 . That was his highest single-week total for the year . Clinton trailed him in the battle for exposure , a major figure in 60 % of stories . ( An analysis of primary-season coverage from Jan. 6 through June 8 reveals that on an average week , Obama registered in 57 % of the coverage compared to 50 % for Clinton . McCain trailed badly at 27 % . )
Ahead of Donald Trump 's scheduled press conference in New York City on Wednesday , the public continues to give the president-elect low marks for how he is handling the transition process . Most disapprove of the job he has done outlining his plans for the country 's future and there remain widespread concerns about his potential conflicts of interest – though these concerns are somewhat lower than they were a month ago . In addition , Trump is at odds with the public over his tax returns : A wide majority says he has a responsibility to release his tax returns , a step he has yet to take . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Jan. 4 - 9 among 1,502 adults , finds that 39 % approve of the job President-elect Trump has done so far explaining his policies and plans for the future to the American people , while a larger share ( 55 % ) say they disapprove . Overall ratings have changed little since December and remain highly partisan : 72 % of Republicans and Republican leaners approve of the job he is doing , compared with just 13 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
More than a third of Americans ( 37 % ) say they heard a lot last week about a Rutgers University student who committed suicide after other students streamed live video of him having a sexual encounter in his dorm room over the internet . About a quarter ( 24 % ) say they heard a lot about a controversy concerning the immigration status of California Republican gubernatorial candidate Meg Whitman 's housekeeper . About as many ( 23 % ) say they heard a lot about a recall of Fisher Price toys and other products . Fewer had heard a lot about five soldiers charged with the murder of Afghan civilians ( 15 % ) or about a rally of liberal groups in Washington , D.C. , last weekend ( 10 % ) .
Conservatives would rather live in small towns or rural areas than anywhere else . Our research found an overwhelming preference among the most conservative Americans for nonurban lifestyles : 41 % of consistent conservatives said they would live in a rural area if they could live anywhere in the U.S. , and 35 % picked a small town ; just 4 % said they 'd prefer a city .
Millennials , who are projected to surpass Baby Boomers next year as the United States ' largest living adult generation , are also approaching the Boomers in their share of the American electorate . As of November 2016 , an estimated 62 million Millennials ( adults ages 20 to 35 in 2016 ) were voting-age U.S. citizens , surpassing the 57 million Generation X members ( ages 36 to 51 ) in the nation 's electorate and moving closer in number to the 70 million Baby Boomers ( ages 52 to 70 ) , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . Millennials comprised 27 % of the voting-eligible population in 2016 , while Boomers made up 31 % . In 2016 , Generation X and members of the Silent and Greatest generations ( ages 71 and older ) comprised 25 % and 13 % of the electorate , respectively . In addition , the oldest members of the post-Millennial generation ( those born after 1996 ) began to make their presence known for the first time – 7 million of these 18- and 19-year-olds were eligible to vote in 2016 ( comprising just 3 % of the electorate ) .
The drop in the number of Mexicans living in the U.S. also is reflected in the share of adults in Mexico who report having family or friends living in the U.S. with whom they keep in touch . In 2007 , 42 % of Mexican adults said they kept in contact with acquaintances living in the U.S. , while today , 35 % say so , according to newly released results from the Pew Research Center 's 2015 survey in Mexico . Asked about their willingness to migrate to the U.S. , 35 % say they would move to the U.S. if they had the opportunity and means to do so , including 20 % of adults in Mexico who would do so without authorization . This is unchanged from 2009 when a third of adults in Mexico said they would be willing to migrate to the U.S. , and 18 % said they would do it without authorization ( Pew Research Center , 2009 ) .
Blacks are also divided about the impact racial discrimination has on black progress today , but the age groups align slightly differently on this measure . Survey respondents in the pre-Ferguson Pew Research poll were asked which of the following statements came closer to their own views : Racial discrimination is the main reason why many black people ca n't get ahead these days , or blacks who ca n't get ahead in this country are mostly responsible for their own condition . Overall , blacks split fairly evenly on this question , with 43 % choosing the first statement and 48 % choosing the second one .
The eyes of the world will be turned toward Russia in the coming weeks as the XXII Winter Olympics begin in Sochi . While the attention has not always been flattering , and there are continued worries about potential terrorist attacks , many in Russia hope that the Olympics will showcase their country 's prosperity . But when it comes to global public opinion toward Russia , much of the world has unfavorable or mixed views , according to our spring 2013 Global Attitudes survey . People in only nine of 38 countries surveyed say they have a positive view of Russia — and among those , in only two of them do half or more of the population have a favorable opinion . Coincidentally , the most positive views of Russia hail from the birthplace of both the ancient and modern Olympic games , Greece ( 63 % favorable ) . Russia also gets moderately positive views from close neighbors South Korea ( 53 % ) and China ( 49 % ) . In 12 of the 38 countries , views of Russia are mixed . In Canada , one of the strongest perennial contenders for Winter Olympic gold and the most recent host of the games , 42 % have a favorable view of Russia and 39 % have an unfavorable opinion . In the U.S. , another strong medal competitor , only 37 % see Russia in a favorable light while 43 % express a negative opinion . In the remaining 17 countries , opinions toward Russia are decidedly negative , especially in Europe and the Middle East . In Europe , negative views are shared by 64 % of the French , 60 % of Germans , 56 % of Italians , 54 % of Poles , and 51 % among Czechs and the Spanish . Among Middle Eastern publics , opinions are even worse , with seven-in-ten or more in Israel ( 77 % ) and Jordan ( 70 % ) holding a negative opinion of Russia .
For the first time ever , the black voter turnout rate in a presidential election exceeded the white voter turnout rate—66.2 % versus 64.1 % . While the presence of Barack Obama on the ballot in 2008 and 2012 no doubt contributed to the narrowing and reversal of what had been a longstanding black-white turnout gap , the rise in the black turnout rate pre-dates his candidacies , as the chart to the right illustrates . Hispanics continue to punch below their weight . Much was made right after the November election about the clout of the Hispanic vote ( by , among others , the Pew Research Center ) . But the new Census Bureau data show that Hispanics ' turnout rate—just 48 % —was far below that of whites ( 64.1 % ) or blacks ( 66.2 % ) . It also fell nearly two percentage points below the Hispanic turnout rate in 2008 , which was 49.9 % . Because of population growth , the number of Latinos who voted for president increased by about 1.4 million from 2008 to 2012 , to a record 11.2 million , but the number of Latinos who were eligible but chose not to vote increased even more—by 2.3 million—from 9.8 million in 2008 to 12.1 million in 2012 .
As of Wednesday the current Congress had enacted 142 laws , the fewest of any Congress in the past two decades over an equivalent timespan . And only 108 of those enactments were substantive pieces of legislation , under our deliberately broad criteria ( no post-office renamings , anniversary commemorations or other purely ceremonial laws ) . That 's two fewer than the previous Congress — itself not generally considered a model of productivity — had managed by this point in 2012 . ( As The Washington Post recently pointed out , Congress has a long history of dithering and squabbling rather than legislating during the dog days of summer . )
The educational attainment of recently arrived Latino immigrants in the United States has reached its highest level in at least three decades , reflecting changes in where immigrants are coming from and rising education levels in Latin America and other regions , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . About a quarter ( 26 % ) of recently arrived Latino immigrants ages 25 and older had a bachelor 's degree or more education in 2018 , up from just 10 % in 1990 . They are among a rapidly growing share of recently arrived Hispanic immigrants who have completed high school – 67 % in 2018 , up from 38 % in 1990 . These increases have helped raise the education levels of all Latino immigrants and shifted the group toward high-skill occupations and away from low-skill ones . Latino immigrants who have been in the U.S. for more than a decade have a very different educational profile than recent arrivals – defined here as those in the country for five years or less . About one-in-ten Latino immigrants who are long-term residents ( 12 % ) had a college degree in 2018 , part of the 54 % of long-term Latino residents who had completed high school .
While online daters generally say their overall experience was positive , they also point out some of the downsides of online dating . By a wide margin , Americans who have used a dating site or app in the past year say their recent experience left them feeling more frustrated ( 45 % ) than hopeful ( 28 % ) . Other sentiments are more evenly balanced between positive and negative feelings . Some 35 % of current or recent users say that in the past year online dating has made them feel more pessimistic , while 29 % say these platforms left them feeling more optimistic . Similarly , 32 % say online dating sites or apps made them feel more confident , whereas 25 % say it left them feeling more insecure .
In total , about 1.1 million unauthorized immigrants are eligible for the benefits , according to a 2014 Pew Research Center estimate , which means that about 78 % of those potentially eligible have applied to the program . The total reflects the number of applications during the life of the program , not the number of applications approved or immigrants currently receiving benefits . Several U.S. senators who support the bill represent states with some of the highest number of DACA recipients , including California , Illinois and Arizona . California alone has 222,795 initial DACA recipients , the highest in the nation , followed by Texas ( 124,300 ) and Illinois ( 42,376 ) .
Democrats ' perception of state policies depends on where they live . A majority of Democrats ( 57 % ) living in states where stay-at-home orders or other restrictions were in place as of May 5 say evidence from public health experts has a great deal of influence on their state 's policies . In contrast , 28 % of Democrats living in states where restrictions were lifted by May 5 or never in place say the same .
In Europe , those who have favorable opinions of right-wing populist parties are more likely than those with unfavorable views to say division has grown since the coronavirus outbreak began . This is especially true in Germany , where thousands have gathered to protest coronavirus restrictions in recent weeks , including some protestors affiliated with the far right . Fully 75 % of Germans with a favorable opinion of the right-wing Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party say Germany is now more divided than before the coronavirus outbreak , compared with 51 % of those with an unfavorable view of AfD .
Unemployment is persistently higher in the former East Germany than in the former West . In 2018 , the average unemployment rate was 6.9 % in the six states of the former East Germany , compared with 4.8 % in the 10 states of the former West Germany . ( In all economic statistics in this analysis , Berlin is counted in East Germany , even though the city was divided during communism and is not directly comparable to other parts of East Germany . ) Despite these differences , the former East has narrowed the gap with the former West substantially in recent decades . In the early 2000s , the unemployment rate was about 10 percentage points higher in the former East than in the former West – nearly five times the gap in 2018 .
While news about the economic crisis and the stimulus package continued to attract the most interest last week , a deadly plane crash near Buffalo , N.Y. , also drew considerable public attention . About a third ( 32 % ) of Americans followed the crash involving Continental Connection flight 3407 very closely . The airline tragedy was the top story for 10 % of the public . According to PEJ 's analysis , news coverage of the crash , which occurred late in the week , made up 5 % of the newshole . The accident in Buffalo did not attract the same level of public interest as last month 's dramatic emergency landing of a U.S. Airways jet in the Hudson River , where all on the plane survived . The story of the California mother and her newborn octuplets continued to capture headlines and public interest . One-in-ten said the octuplets was their most closely followed story of the week , equal to the percentage citing the Continental plane crash . About one-in-four ( 26 % ) followed this news very closely compared with 23 % during the previous week . The media , for its part , devoted 1 % of total newshole to this story . New York Yankee Alex Rodriguez made headlines last week when he admitted to using performance enhancing drugs from 2001 to 2003 when he played for the Texas Rangers . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) followed news about his admission very closely , while 3 % cited this as their most closely followed story . News about Rodriguez accounted for 1 % of all news last week , making him the fourth biggest newsmaker behind President Obama , Senator Judd Gregg and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner . News about Rodriguez using banned substances attracted almost as much interest as coverage of pitcher Roger Clemens testifying before Congress in February , 2008 about alleged steroid use .
In a busy news week , more Americans say they followed the debate over the `` fiscal cliff '' very closely than the investigations into the Libya embassy attack , renewed violence in the Middle East or the FBI investigation that led to David Petraeus 's resignation as CIA Director after it found he was having an extra-marital affair .
Almost no one in Nigeria , Ghana , Bangladesh and Uganda owns a landline telephone . Many people worldwide are skipping the fixed telephone line that many Americans grew up with , and this fact is most apparent in many emerging and developing nations . Only 1 % of the population in Nigeria , Ghana , Bangladesh and Uganda say they own a working landline telephone in their household , while 89 % in Nigeria , 83 % in Ghana , 76 % in Bangladesh and 65 % in Uganda own cell phones . This compares with 60 % landline penetration in the U.S .
The survey finds that partisan differences in opinions about the Supreme Court – which widened substantially last year after the court 's ruling on the Affordable Care Act – have narrowed since then . Currently , 54 % of Democrats , 48 % of Republicans and 47 % of independents express favorable opinions of the court . Last July , there was a 26-point partisan gap in favorable views of the court : 64 % of Democrats viewed the court favorably compared with just 38 % of Republicans . Since then , favorable ratings of the court have declined 10 points among Democrats , while increasing by 10 points among Republicans . Independents ' views have shown less change ( 47 % favorable today , 51 % last July ) .
Most Americans today continue to oppose building a wall along the entire border with Mexico : 61 % express opposition to the wall , while 36 % are in favor . These attitudes have changed little over the past year . Differences across demographic and political groups remain stark . While more whites say they are opposed ( 54 % ) than say they are in favor ( 43 % ) of the U.S.-Mexico border wall , they are far less likely than blacks and Hispanics to oppose the proposed wall . Roughly three-quarters of both blacks ( 76 % ) and Hispanics ( 76 % ) say they oppose the proposal , while just about one-in-five favor the wall .
The exercise of military force has been controversial in Japan since World War II . The Japanese Constitution outlaws war as a means for the state to settle international disputes . A majority ( 62 % ) of Japanese say Japan should limit its military role in the Asia-Pacific region . Just 29 % voice the view that Japan should play a more active military role in regional affairs . Notably , support for a more active military role is up 6 percentage points since 2015 . Among the minority of Japanese who believe Japan should take on more military responsibilities , men ( 36 % ) are more likely than women ( 22 % ) to hold this view .
Republicans have long been more likely than Democrats to say news coverage unfairly favors one side , and that remains the case today . About nine-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 91 % ) think news coverage of political and social issues favors one side , compared with 69 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners .
The U.S. admitted 84,995 refugees in fiscal year 2016 , the most since 1999 . More than half resettled in one of just 10 states , with the largest numbers going to California and Texas . Nebraska , North Dakota and Idaho ranked near the top for the most refugees resettled per capita , with rates over two-and-a-half times the national average . And almost half ( 46 % ) of the fiscal 2016 refugees were Muslim , the highest number for any year since refugees ' self-reported religious affiliation became publicly available in 2002 .
Today 's military is comprised of service members who served during a wide range of eras , from World War II to the post-9/11 conflicts . But the share who served in pre-9/11 eras will dwindle in future decades . In 2015 , the largest share of veterans first served during the Vietnam era ( 33 % ) . Projections from the Department of Veterans Affairs show the waning influence of veterans from the World War II , Korean War and Vietnam eras . By 2045 , the largest share of living veterans will have first served in the post-9/11 Gulf War era ( 35 % ) .
In addition to the Cain allegations , most Americans say they heard at least a little last week about large banks abandoning plans to charge monthly fees for using debit cards to shop ( 46 % a lot , 33 % a little ) . Far fewer had heard about the arrest of four older men in Georgia on charges that they were planning a terror attack involving the poison ricin . Just 8 % had heard a lot about this story , 30 % had heard a little . About six-in-ten ( 61 % ) had heard nothing at all about this .
In all countries , more than half say these companies are having a positive impact , including about seven-in-ten or more in Kenya , Nigeria and Uganda . A median of 67 % across the nations polled say extractive companies are providing jobs for local workers and 59 % believe they contribute to economic growth . At the same time , as is true for the government and nonprofit sectors , people have some concerns about these for-profit industries as well . A median of 61 % believe foreign extractive companies in Africa are causing environmental damage , while about half ( 51 % ) say the mines and oil rigs are unsafe for workers and 45 % say these firms do not pay their share of taxes .
People in the former West are also more likely than those in the former East ( 50 % vs. 42 % ) to say children today will be better off financially than their parents when they grow up .
But the American rich still make considerably more than other countries ' rich . At the 95th percentile , U.S. per-capita income was nearly $ 60,000 , more than $ 10,000 ahead of Canada 's top earners .
All that extra data enables the BLS to calculate six different measures of labor underutilization , labeled U-1 through U-6 , with broader or narrower parameters than the official unemployment rate ( which is known as U-3 ) . The broadest , U-6 , includes all `` marginally attached '' workers ( including discouraged workers ) and involuntary part-time workers . The seasonally adjusted U-6 rate stood at 9.4 % in January ; since 1994 it has ranged from 6.8 % ( in October 2000 ) to 17.1 % ( most recently in April 2010 ) . While the U-6 typically runs anywhere from 3 to 7 percentage points higher than the regular unemployment rate , with the gap wider during recessions and narrower in good economic times , it tends to follow the same pattern as the official unemployment rate .
Hispanics are significantly more likely than the general U.S. public to believe in core parts of the American dream – that hard work will pay off and that each successive generation is better off than the one before it . Yet many Hispanics see the American dream as hard to reach , and belief in it declines as immigrant roots grow distant , according to newly released results from a Pew Research Center 2016 survey of Hispanic adults . More than three-quarters of Hispanics ( 77 % ) said at the time that most people can get ahead with hard work , a higher share than among the U.S. public ( 62 % ) in 2016 . For Hispanics , similar shares expected their standard of living to be better than that of their parents ( 75 % ) and expected their children to be better off than themselves ( 72 % ) . Among the U.S. public , by contrast , just 56 % expected to be better off than their parents , and 46 % expected their children to have a better standard of living than they did .
Roughly three-quarters say that defending the country from terrorism ( 76 % ) and strengthening the economy ( 73 % ) should be top priorities for Congress and the new president . And two-thirds or more prioritize improving the educational system ( 69 % ) , improving the job situation ( 68 % ) and reducing health care costs ( 66 % ) .
Overall , college professors are viewed warmly : 49 % give professors either a very warm ( 33 % ) or somewhat warm ( 16 % ) rating , 26 % give professors a neutral rating , while 24 % give them either a very cold ( 16 % ) or somewhat cold ( 8 % ) rating ) . But while Democratic ratings of professors are largely positive ( 66 % warm , including 50 % very warm ) , Republican views are more negative than positive . Just 30 % of Republicans give college professors a warm rating , while 43 % give them a cold rating . ( For more on views of college professors , see `` Republicans much ‘ colder ' than Democrats in views of professors . '' )
American views of NATO are shaped by political party affiliation , according to past Pew Research Center surveys . Historically , Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents are more likely to express a favorable opinion of the organization than Republicans and Republican-leaning independents . In the summer of 2020 , seven-in-ten Democrats had a favorable view of NATO , compared with less than half ( 46 % ) of their Republican counterparts , a difference of 24 percentage points . Among Democrats , NATO favorability has ticked up from 61 % in 2019 to 70 % this summer . Republican views of the alliance have held steady at roughly half since 2009 , although in 2013 , a record low of only 43 % held a positive view of NATO .
Perceptions of how the war is going have been fairly stable over the past year . Just over half of the public ( 52 % ) says the war is going very or fairly well , while 44 % think the war is not going well . Positive views of the war reached 75 % in December 2003 , after the capture of Saddam Hussein , and reached a low of 46 % in May 2004 , in the wake of revelations of prisoner abuse by U.S. troops at Abu Ghraib prison . Similarly , belief that the U.S. made the right decision in going to war has not changed much over the past year . Currently , a small plurality ( 49 % ) says the use of military force was the right decision , while 44 % disagree . Since last July , support for the decision to go to war has ranged from 46 % to 53 % .
The levels seen in Britain , Spain , and Germany are comparable to those seen in most of the predominantly Muslim countries surveyed . In Pakistan , 87 % primarily identify as Muslims ; in Jordan , 67 % do so . In Nigeria , 71 % of Muslims see themselves as Muslims first , whereas a smaller 53 % -majority of Christians primarily identify with their faith . In Turkey a slight 51 % -majority now self-identifies as Muslim rather than Turkish , although this is a substantial rise from the 43 % who did so in 2005 . Among Muslim countries in the survey , only in Indonesia does the public split 39 % -36 % between primary national and religious identity , with 25 % selecting both equally .
Mexicans ' optimism about their government 's progress against drug traffickers has dipped . Roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) believe the government is making progress against drug traffickers , down 6 points since last year . In mid-February 2014 , Mexican officials , working with U.S. anti-drug forces , captured the notorious Sinaloa cartel leader known as `` El Chapo . '' The boost in the share of Mexicans saying in the spring 2014 survey that their government was making progress against drug traffickers came shortly after his capture . However , this view of progress made by the campaign faded over the course of the year to present levels , even before El Chapo 's second escape from prison in July .
According to the survey of Hispanics , most U.S. Hispanics would prioritize , by 55 % to 35 % , relief from deportation over a pathway to citizenship for unauthorized immigrants . A similar survey of Asian-American adults fielded in October finds that U.S. Asians tilt in the same direction , though by a much narrower margin—49 % to 44 % .
These highly engaged social media users express many of the same frustrations about the tone and tenor of political discussions on social media – but many of them simultaneously view social media platforms as valuable tools for political action and discussion . Roughly one-in-five politically engaged users ( 19 % ) indicate that they often comment , discuss or post about political issues with others on social media ( just 6 % of less politically engaged users post with this level of frequency ) . And nearly one-third of these politically engaged users feel that social media sites do `` very well '' at bringing new voices into the political discussion ( 31 % ) or helping people get involved with issues that matter to them ( 30 % ) . The concerns and frustrations outlined above are occurring in a broader context : namely , one in which political discussions are encroaching into a range of different social spaces . Two of the more common social media platforms – Facebook and Twitter – are illustrative in this regard . Facebook users tend to be friends primarily with people they know personally ( 66 % of Facebook users say they mostly follow people they already know ) , while Twitter users are much more likely to follow people they do not know personally ( 48 % of Twitter users indicate that most of the people they follow are in this category ) . And a large share of Facebook and Twitter users report that they follow a relatively broad mix of people with differing political views and opinions ( indeed , just 23 % of Facebook users and 17 % of Twitter users say that they mostly follow people with political views that are similar to theirs ) . But despite these differences in the social and political composition of their networks , an identical share of Facebook users and Twitter users report that they frequently encounter political posts and engage in political discussions among the people in their networks .
Amid the breakdown of peace talks between Israeli and Palestinian negotiators , the public is divided over whether a way can be found for a peaceful two-state solution in the Middle East . Overall , 46 % say an independent Palestinian state can coexist peacefully with Israel , 44 % do not think this can happen . A year ago , 50 % thought it was possible for an independent Palestinian state to exist peacefully alongside Israel , 41 % did not .
The rise of `` outsider '' presidential candidates such as Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders has focused attention on the level of political frustration in the United States . By one measure – the share of Americans who express unfavorable opinions of both political parties – that frustration has grown . In our July survey , 24 % of the public has an unfavorable opinion of both the Republican and Democratic parties . That is up from 19 % in January , though little changed from yearly averages in polls conducted in 2014 and 2013 ( 22 % each ) .
And even though Democratic candidates won the 18- to 29- year-old vote by an 11-point margin , 54 % to 43 % , this group did n't carry the same weight as it did two years ago when Barack Obama was re-elected . They made up a much smaller share of the electorate than in 2012 , and the Democratic margins among this group also were not as large as in 2012 . This gap is the result both of the youngest voters ( 18- to 29- year-olds ) consistently favoring Democrats over Republicans , while over this same time period voters 65 and older have consistently favored Republicans . Before 2004 , there were little to no age differences in vote preferences going back more than two decades .
As has been the case throughout the 2016 campaign , voters remain highly engaged by the presidential contest . A majority of registered voters ( 56 % ) say they have given `` a lot '' of thought to the candidates running for president . At this point in the 2008 campaign , following the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primary , fewer voters ( 50 % ) said they had thought a lot about the presidential candidates . Interest in the campaign is unchanged since December , but has increased steadily since last March , when just 26 % said they were giving a lot of thought to the presidential candidates .
In the current survey , 57 % of whites say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns ; just 37 % say it is more important to control gun ownership . This is little changed from surveys conducted since April 2009 . From 1993 through 2008 , however , majorities of whites consistently said that controlling gun ownership was more important than protecting gun rights . African Americans are far less likely than whites to rate the protection of gun rights as more important than gun control . In the current survey , 35 % say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns , while 60 % say gun rights are more important . But the percentage of blacks saying that protecting gun rights is more important has climbed by 13 points , from 22 % , since last October . The share of blacks prioritizing gun control has fallen 11 points , from 71 % then to 60 % today .
The idea that Newtown might lead to a sea change in public opinion on gun control had some basis in a Pew Research Center survey conducted less than a week after the shootings . About half of Americans ( 49 % ) said it was more important to control gun ownership while 42 % said it was more important to protect the right of Americans to own guns . Although the numbers added up to just a modest change , it was the first time during Barack Obama 's presidency that more Americans came down on the side of making gun control the priority .
It remains to be seen how many Latino Democratic voters will participate in a Democratic primary or caucus . When asked to identify the date of their state 's primary or caucus , 86 % say they are either unsure of the month ( 77 % ) or incorrectly identified the month ( 9 % ) .
U.S. Catholics are more likely than the general public to have a positive assessment of Francis . About three-quarters of Catholics ( 77 % ) now view the pope favorably , which is 10 percentage points lower than the share who did so in January 2017 ( 87 % ) but not statistically different from the ratings recorded in January or September 2018 . ( Even though the 2018 and 2020 surveys produced different estimates of the share of Catholics who view Pope Francis favorably , the differences between the current survey and each of the surveys conducted in 2018 do not pass a test of statistical significance . ) A January 2018 survey found growing partisan polarization in views of Pope Francis , with Catholic Republicans holding less favorable views of the pontiff than Catholic Democrats . That polarization persists today , with roughly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) Catholic Democrats and Democratic leaners viewing Francis favorably compared with 71 % among Catholic Republicans and Republican leaners .
Currently , 44 % name Obama as their first or second choice for having done the best job of any president of their lifetimes , while 33 % name Clinton , 32 % Reagan and 19 % Trump . In 2011 , 49 % said Clinton had been one of the top two presidents , compared with 34 % who cited Reagan and 20 % who mentioned Obama .
Costner 's fellow Southerners are among the strongest critics of the Supreme Court 's rulings on school prayer . More than seven-in-ten people ( 73 % ) living in the South say they disapprove of the high court 's decisions on the topic in the 2012 GSS . But many in Costner 's generation have a different view . Nationwide , about 56 % of those ages 18 - 29 say they approve of the ban on school prayer – by far the highest share of any age group .
Public interest in news about the campaign is lower than it was in October 2008 . Currently 48 % say they are following news about the election very closely . That is the highest percentage this year , though not significantly different from the previous two weeks , ( 45 % in Oct. 12 - 14 and Oct. 4 - 7 ) . At a comparable point in mid-October 2008 ( Oct. 17 - 20 ) , 61 % said they were following campaign very closely – the highest percentage of the campaign . Interest fell to 44 % the following week , before rebounding to 57 % the weekend before the election .
As the number of Latino eligible voters has grown , so too has the number of Latinos casting votes in presidential elections . In 2008 , 9.7 million Latinos cast a vote—a record then , and up from 7.6 million in 2004 , also a record year .3 In addition , Latinos represent a growing share of voters . In 2008 , Hispanics made up 7.4 % of all voters , up from 6.0 % in 2004 ( Lopez and Taylor , 2009 ) . Nonetheless , Hispanics are still a smaller part of the potential electorate than might be expected given their rapid population growth and share of the general population . For example , according to the Pew Hispanic analysis , more than 25 million blacks are eligible to vote in 2012 as are more than 152 million whites—both larger than the Hispanic electorate .
When asked whether their country should or should not use military force to defend a NATO ally from a hypothetical attack by Russia , in only five of the 16 member states surveyed – the Netherlands , the U.S. , Canada , the UK and Lithuania – do half or more say that they should use such force . Across the 16 countries , a median of 50 % say that their country should not defend a NATO ally in the event of an attack by Russia , while 38 % say they should .
While John McCain may have closed the gap in campaign news coverage , equaling the attention garnered by his opponent , Barack Obama remains the far more visible candidate in the eyes of the public . When asked which presidential candidate they have heard the most about in the news over the last week or so , 76 % of the public names Barack Obama while just one-in-ten ( 11 % ) recalls John McCain . As many Republicans ( 76 % ) as Democrats ( 80 % ) cite Obama as the candidate they have heard most about in the news recently .
Most Trump supporters prefer to vote in person in November , while most Biden supporters prefer to vote by mail , according to the July 27-Aug. 2 survey . Trump and Biden backers have nearly inverse preferences for voting in the fall . Six-in-ten Trump supporters prefer to vote in person on Election Day , while 17 % prefer to vote by mail . Biden supporters are far more likely to prefer to vote by mail than in person ( 58 % vs. 23 % ) . Around one-in-five in both groups – 20 % of Trump supporters and 17 % of Biden supporters – prefer to vote in person before Election Day . Voting preferences also differ notably by educational attainment . Voters with a high school diploma or less education are much more likely to prefer to vote in person on Election Day than through the mail ( 49 % vs. 29 % ) . The reverse is true among those with a bachelor 's degree ( 48 % vs. 31 % ) and those with a postgraduate degree ( 51 % vs. 29 % ) .
Roughly three-in-ten or more online dating users say someone through a dating site or app continued to contact them after they said they were not interested ( 37 % ) , sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for ( 35 % ) or called them an offensive name ( 28 % ) . Fewer online daters say someone via a dating site or app has threatened to physically harm them . Younger women are particularly likely to encounter each of these behaviors . Six-in-ten female online dating users ages 18 to 34 say someone via a dating site or app continued to contact them after they said they were not interested , while 57 % report that another user has sent them a sexually explicit message or image they did n't ask for . Other negative interactions are more violent in nature : 19 % of younger female users say someone on a dating site or app has threatened to physically harm them – roughly twice the rate of men in the same age range who say this .
While about two-thirds of Latino ( 65 % ) and black ( 66 % ) adults went online in 2010 , more than three-fourths ( 77 % ) of white adults did so . In terms of broadband use at home , there is a large gap between Latinos ( 45 % ) and whites ( 65 % ) , and the rate among blacks ( 52 % ) is somewhat higher than that of Latinos . Fully 85 % of whites owned a cell phone in 2010 , compared with 76 % of Latinos and 79 % of blacks .
In 21 of 24 nations , a majority of internet users also participate in sites like Facebook and Twitter ( see here for a country by country list of social networking sites ) .
Americans with a high school education or less are more likely than college graduates to believe in God or a higher power ( 94 % vs. 84 % ) . They also are more likely than those who graduated from college to believe in the God of the Bible ( 66 % vs. 45 % ) and to believe that a higher power determines what happens in their lives most or all of the time ( 59 % vs. 33 % ) .
Hispanics also saw their poverty rate decline as household incomes rose . The Hispanic poverty rate stood at 21.4 % in 2015 , down from 23.6 % in 2014 , according to the Census Bureau . Non-Hispanic whites ( 9.1 % ) and Asians ( 11.4 % ) had far lower poverty rates than Hispanics in 2015 , while that of blacks ( 24.1 % ) was slightly higher . While Latinos have made recent gains on income , poverty and employment , there has been little or no improvement in other areas . For example , the median net worth for Hispanic households in 2013 ( $ 13,700 ) declined after the end of the Great Recession in 2009 , and trailed far behind that of whites ( $ 141,900 ) , according to the latest U.S. government data . Meanwhile , the Latino homeownership rate , currently at 47 % , remains below its 2007 peak of 50 % .
Wealth gaps between upper-income families and lower- and middle-income families are at the highest levels recorded . Although lower- and middle-income families overall experienced gains in wealth in recent years , they were not large enough to make up for the losses these families sustained during the recession . Thus , in 2016 , the median wealth of lower-income families was 42 % less than in 2007 and the median wealth of middle-income families was 33 % lower . Indeed , the net worth of these families in 2016 – $ 10,800 for lower-income families and $ 110,100 for middle-income families – was comparable to 1989 levels . The experience of upper-income families is markedly different . Their losses in the recession were smaller and their recovery was stronger . By 2016 , upper-income families had a median wealth of $ 810,800 , 10 % more than prior to the recession in 2007 . Moreover , the median wealth of upper-income families is at the highest level since the Federal Reserve started collecting these data in 1983 . Consequently , the recession drove wealth inequality between upper-income families and lower- and middle-income families to the highest levels recorded . In 2016 , the median wealth of upper-income families was seven times that of middle-income families , a ratio that has doubled since 1983 . Upper-income families also had 75 times the wealth of lower-income families in 2016 , compared with 28 times the wealth in 1983 . Upper-income white families have grown wealthier . Among upper-income families , white households had a median net worth of $ 971,500 in 2016 , notably higher than the overall median for this income tier . Moreover , the median wealth of upper-income white families in 2016 was 25 % greater than its pre-recession level , an increase greater than for all upper-income families combined .
Public support for allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally has rebounded a bit after declining between 2003 and 2004 . Today , 36 % of Americans favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry , up from 32 % in December 2004 . The percentage favoring gay civil unions has risen as well . Currently , 53 % favor allowing gays and lesbians to enter into legal arrangements providing them with many of the same rights as married couples ; that compares with 48 % last August .
Currently , slightly more voters have a favorable ( 50 % ) than unfavorable ( 45 % ) opinion of Barack Obama . Though there are still more than three months to go before the election , Obama 's current favorability ratings compare poorly with the final pre-election ratings for previous Democratic candidates . Not since Michael Dukakis in 1988 has a Democratic candidate gone into the election with favorability ratings as low as Obama 's are today . Romney faces a more daunting challenge , as more voters say they have an unfavorable ( 52 % ) than favorable ( 37 % ) opinion of him . The only prior presidential candidates to be viewed negatively going into the election were George H.W . Bush in October 1992 and Bob Dole in October 1996 .
Lebanon – the country where views of diversity were most negative – has been heavily affected in recent years by Syrian refugees . It is the country that hosts the highest number of Syrian refugees per capita , according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( UNHCR ) , having taken in around 1 million refugees in a country with fewer than 7 million people . Even before the coronavirus pandemic and the resulting lockdown restrictions placed on Syrian refugees in Lebanon , public sentiment about refugees in Lebanon was largely negative : a 70 % majority had an unfavorable view of refugees , including 41 % who had very unfavorable opinions . Though age , education and income levels all played a role in views of refugees , majorities across each of these demographic groups held negative opinions . And when it came to religion , Sunni Muslims ( 60 % ) were less likely to have unfavorable opinions of refugees than Shiite Muslims ( 71 % ) or Christians ( 83 % ) .
Hungarians are also much more likely than other Europeans to hold negative views of various minority groups . Nearly three-quarters hold an unfavorable view of Muslims in their country , and more than six-in-ten see Roma in a negative light . About a third express an unfavorable opinion of Jews – double the European median .
The public has become increasingly critical of news organizations ' campaign coverage over the past two decades . Currently , about half ( 49 % ) rate media coverage of the campaign as excellent or good while about as many ( 45 % ) rate it as only fair or poor . Four years ago , the balance tilted positive . More than half ( 55 % ) rated coverage as excellent or good just after Super Tuesday ; 44 % said it was only fair or poor . The positive numbers have edged downwards across partisan lines . At a comparable point in the 1992 campaign , 63 % rated press coverage as excellent or good , while 34 % said it was only fair or poor .
Three decades after the fall of the Berlin Wall , people in many former communist countries in Europe see greatly improved standards of living . Since 1991 , there have been large increases in the share of adults who think the changes that swept through the region in 1989 and 1991 have had a good influence on living standards in their country . In Poland , for example , only 14 % of people said in 1991 that the recent changes had had a positive influence on living standards . By 2019 , that figure had shot up to 81 % , more than a fivefold increase . In Lithuania , the share saying this has soared from just 9 % in 1991 to 70 % this year .
And younger Republicans are far less skeptical about government than are older Republicans . About six-in-ten ( 59 % ) Millennial Republicans think that `` government is almost always wasteful and inefficient , '' compared with roughly eight-in-ten of Republicans over age 33 . But there is little difference across generations within the GOP over social safety net programs : About three-quarters of those in older generations say the government ca n't afford to do much more to help the needy , compared with 68 % of Millennial Republicans .
Recent surveys show that most people in several countries with significant Muslim populations have an unfavorable view of ISIS , including virtually all respondents in Lebanon and 94 % in Jordan . Relatively small shares say they see ISIS favorably . In some countries , considerable portions of the population do not offer an opinion about ISIS , including a majority ( 62 % ) of Pakistanis . Favorable views of ISIS are somewhat higher in Nigeria ( 14 % ) than most other nations . Among Nigerian Muslims , 20 % say they see ISIS favorably ( compared with 7 % of Nigerian Christians ) . The Nigerian militant group Boko Haram , which has been conducting a terrorist campaign in the country for years , has sworn allegiance to ISIS .
In late December , McCain , Giuliani and Huckabee had comparable levels of support nationally : McCain drew 22 % , Giuliani 20 % and Huckabee 17 % . McCain is now the national frontrunner at 29 % , followed by Huckabee ( 20 % ) and Romney ( 17 % ) . Despite winning neither of the early contests , Romney 's support nationwide has risen five points since late December .
As the April 15 tax deadline approaches , overall public views of the fairness of the nation 's tax system have changed only modestly since 2017 , before passage of major tax legislation . However , partisan differences on tax fairness have increased considerably since then , and now are wider than at any point in at least two decades . Two years ago , Republicans and Democrats had similar views of the fairness of the tax system . Today , 64 % of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say the present tax system is very or moderately fair ; just half as many Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 32 % ) view the tax system as fair . The share of Republicans who say the tax system is fair has increased 21 percentage points since 2017 . Over this period , the share of Democrats viewing the tax system as fair has declined nine points .
Among Americans ages 18 to 29 , about six-in-ten ( 61 % ) say they would feel somewhat or very comfortable using a gender-neutral pronoun to refer to someone if they asked them to do so . By comparison , roughly half of those ages 30 to 49 ( 52 % ) and 50 and older ( 48 % ) express comfort .
Those in the lowest-income households are considerably less likely to be online . Just 53 % of adults living in households with less than $ 30,000 in annual income go online , versus 80 % of those whose income is between $ 30,000 - 50,000 . Adults who live in households earning $ 50,000 or more exceed the national average for internet penetration ; 86 % of adults living in households with annual income between $ 50,000 and $ 75,000 use the internet , compared with 91 % of adults living in households earning more than $ 75,000 .
Elsewhere in the region , the 2007 survey found little confidence in Chavez to do the right thing in world affairs among the Latin American countries surveyed . In fact , fewer than one-in-five said they have confidence in Chavez 's ability as a global leader in Brazil ( 17 % ) , Mexico ( 17 % ) , Peru ( 15 % ) and Chile ( 14 % ) . Even in the country led by one of Chavez 's closest allies — Bolivia 's Evo Morales — only one-third expressed confidence in the Venezuelan leader . Opinions about Chavez were more mixed in Argentina , where nearly as many expressed confidence as lacked confidence ( 40 % vs. 43 % , respectively ) . Between 2007 and 2008 , confidence in Chavez declined in all of the three Latin American countries included in the 2008 Global Attitudes poll — Argentina , Brazil and Mexico . In Argentina , only a quarter ( 26 % ) held a lot or some confidence in Chavez in 2008 , a drop of 14 percentage points from 2007 . Similarly in Mexico , confidence ratings in Chavez declined 11 percentage points from 17 % to 6 % . In Brazil , the drop was less substantial , from 17 % to 12 % .
Views about the role of government funding as compared with private investment show steady support for government investment ( 61 % in 2014 and 60 % in 2009 ) but , there is a slight rise in the view that private investment , without government funds , will be enough to ensure scientific progress ( from 29 % in 2009 to 34 % today ) . The modest difference over time stems from more expressing an opinion today than did so five years ago .
In an increasingly technologized , interlinked global economy , where more and more jobs involve analyzing and communicating information , the correlation between productivity ( defined as output per hour worked ) and use of reading skills at work may come as no surprise . But it has major developmental implications , the OECD noted , especially for countries that are n't effectively deploying what skills their residents have .
Most Americans attribute the series of public sex scandals in recent years involving politicians more to the heightened scrutiny they face than to lower moral standards among elected officials . A 57 % majority say elected officials just get caught more often because they are under greater scrutiny . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) , on the other hand , say elected officials have lower moral standards than ordinary Americans , according to the latest national survey conducted June 9 - 12 among 1,002 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press and The Washington Post . Among the 19 % who attribute the scandals to lower moral standards among elected officials , most ( 13 % of the public ) say that when people get into positions of power , they tend to lose their moral standards , while 4 % say that politics attracts the kind of people who have lower moral standards .
Public support for the death penalty , which reached a four-decade low in 2016 , has increased somewhat since then . Today , 54 % of Americans favor the death penalty for people convicted of murder , while 39 % are opposed , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in April and May . Two years ago , 49 % favored the death penalty for people convicted of murder , the lowest level of support for capital punishment in surveys dating back to the early 1970s .
When Pew Research Center began systematically tracking Americans ' internet usage in early 2000 , about half of all adults were already online . Today , nine-in-ten American adults use the internet .
The partisan leanings of white mainline Protestants and white Catholics mirror those of all whites . Jews remain a solidly Democratic group : Nearly twice as many lean Democratic ( 61 % ) as Republican ( 31 % ) . People with no religious affiliation increasingly lean toward the Democratic Party . Currently , 61 % of those who do not identify with any religion lean Democratic – a 22-year high . Back to top
On Twitter , how Ferguson compared with the Travyon Martin case The shootings of Michael Brown and Trayvon Martin also developed differently as news stories . It took nearly three weeks for Martin 's death to generate national headlines . His shooting received hardly any coverage when it occurred on February 26 , 2012 . But the release of the 911 tapes several weeks later created a jump in the volume of conversation on Twitter . The Ferguson story also generated more activity on Twitter than the Martin story did . More than 10.6 million tweets were posted about Ferguson from the day the shooting occurred through the eight days that followed . ( Of those , about 8.3 million used the hashtag # Ferguson , while 2.3 million additional tweets without that hashtag were identified by the computer learning algorithm Crimson Hexagon . ) In comparison , the Martin story generated about 4.7 million tweets during the entire month following his shooting .
Views on this question are strongly aligned with partisan affiliation . While 72 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say that government regulations are necessary to promote adoption of renewable energy sources , 65 % of Republicans and Republican leaners say the private marketplace can accomplish that goal without government regulations .
With more than five months to go before the first votes are cast in the 2020 presidential election , a majority of Democratic voters who express a preference for one of the candidates ( 63 % ) say they feel excited about several of the candidates currently vying for the party 's nomination . Far fewer ( 35 % ) say they are enthused only by their first choice for the nomination .
Men are more likely than women to say these three trends have hurt them personally . Some 36 % of men point to outsourcing as having a detrimental effect on their job or career , compared with 24 % of women . Men also are more likely than women to say the growing number of immigrant workers has harmed their careers ( 26 % vs. 17 % ) and that having more foreign-made products sold in the U.S. has been a negative ( 24 % vs. 15 % ) . Racial and ethnic differences emerge as well . For example , a quarter of whites and 21 % of blacks say the growing number of immigrants has hurt their job or career , compared with just 11 % of Hispanics . Among whites , those without a college degree are far more likely than those with more education to say that increased outsourcing of jobs to other countries ( 39 % vs. 24 % ) and a rise in imports ( 30 % vs. 13 % ) have hurt their job or career . When it comes to the impact of immigration , 42 % of whites with no college experience say it has hurt them personally ; 26 % of those with some college and an even smaller share of white college graduates ( 12 % ) say the growing number of immigrants has hurt their job or career . ( Educational differences among blacks and Hispanics can not be analyzed due to small sample sizes . )
Interest in Afghanstan has been largely stable – though modest – through the late-summer and into the fall . New about the U.S. military effort in Afghanistan has consistently been eclipsed by top domestic stories including news about health care reform , swine flu and the economy . The percentage naming Afghanistan as their top story in a given week has lagged behind domestic stories , tracking more closely with news about the war in Iraq .
And as was the case in the preceding scenario , the public has differing views on which aspects of this story represent online harassment . A very small share of Americans ( 3 % ) think Julie 's initial disagreement with her friends counts as online harassment . Some 43 % consider it harassment when she begins to receive unkind messages , while around one-in-five ( 17 % ) consider it harassment when her post is shared by the popular blogger with thousands of followers . Meanwhile , substantial majorities of Americans think Julie is being harassed when she receives vulgar messages about her looks and sexual behavior ( 85 % ) , when her picture is edited to include sexual images ( 84 % ) , and when she receives threatening messages ( 85 % ) . For example , some 43 % of Americans consider it to be online harassment when Julie receives unkind messages from the people reading her post – but just 20 % think that the platform should have stepped in to address that behavior when it occurred . The public 's attitudes diverge in similar ways on some of the more severe behaviors in the scenario . Most prominently , 85 % of Americans think that Julie experiences online harassment when she begins to receive vulgar messages about her looks and sexual behavior . But substantially fewer ( although still a majority at 66 % ) think that the social media platform has an obligation to step in and address that behavior .
Most of the major deficit reduction proposals under discussion meet with public disapproval . Particularly unpopular are provisions that would tax the health insurance people receive from their employers ( 72 % disapprove ) , raise the national gasoline tax ( 74 % disapprove ) , and reduce federal funding to states for things like education and roads ( 71 % disapprove ) . Of 12 ideas tested , just two meet with majority approval : increasing the amount of earned income that is subject to Social Security withholding ( 64 % approve ) and freezing the salaries of government workers ( 59 % approve ) ; the latter proposal is supported by President Obama and many Republicans .
Majorities of U.S. adults favor each of the five proposals to reduce the effects of climate change included in the survey . The most popular , favored by 90 % of Americans , is to plant about a trillion trees to absorb carbon emissions . President Trump announced in this year 's State of the Union that the U.S. would join the World Economic Forum 's One Trillion Trees Initiative .
As the number of coronavirus cases continues to rise in the U.S. , a majority of Americans say that the best ways to prevent the spread of the disease are pretty well understood . And even as some research studies have suggested conflicting advice about efforts to confront COVID-19 , most Americans consider this to be an understandable part of the research process , rather than a sign that research studies ca n't be trusted . Seven-in-ten Americans say the core strategies for containing the coronavirus are well understood , even though research studies have yielded conflicting advice . A far smaller share ( 28 % ) says it 's difficult to know how best to prevent the spread of COVID-19 , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29-May 5 , 2020 . As scientific understanding of the coronavirus continues to evolve , most Americans ( 78 % ) say it makes sense that studies may have conflicting advice because research is constantly improving ; just 21 % say research studies can not really be trusted because so many studies have conflicting advice .
Asian and Hispanic newlyweds are the most likely to be intermarried . Nearly three-in-ten Asian newlyweds ( 29 % ) were married to someone of a different race or ethnicity in 2015 , as were 27 % of Hispanic newlyweds . Intermarriage for these groups was especially prevalent among the U.S. born : 39 % of U.S.-born Hispanics and almost half ( 46 % ) of U.S.-born Asian newlyweds were intermarried in 2015 . Although Asian and Hispanic newlyweds are most likely to be intermarried , overall increases in intermarriage have been driven in part by rising intermarriage rates among black and white newlyweds . The most dramatic increase has occurred among black newlyweds , whose intermarriage rate more than tripled from 5 % in 1980 to 18 % in 2015 . Among whites , the rate rose from 4 % in 1980 to 11 % in 2015 .
While skeptical about U.S. achievements in Afghanistan , the public narrowly supports the original decision to use military force in Afghanistan . By contrast , more people view the decision to use force in Iraq as wrong than right . Currently , 51 % say it was the right decision to use military force in Afghanistan , while slightly fewer ( 41 % ) say it was the wrong decision . That is among the lowest levels of support for the original decision to use force in Afghanistan since the Pew Research Center began asking the question eight years ago . In January 2006 , fully 69 % endorsed the decision to take military action in Afghanistan . In recent years , opinion about the original decision to go to war had been evenly divided , but in the current survey it has once again turned negative : 50 % say it was wrong to use force in Iraq , while 38 % support the decision to go to war .
What boosts public trust in scientific research findings ? Most say it 's making data openly available . A 57 % majority of Americans say they trust scientific research findings more when the data is openly available to the public . And about half of the U.S. public ( 52 % ) say they are more likely to trust research that has been independently reviewed . The question of who funds the research is also consequential for how people think about scientific research . A 58 % majority say they have lower trust when research is funded by an industry group . By comparison , about half of Americans ( 48 % ) say government funding for research has no particular effect on how much they trust the findings ; 28 % say this decreases their trust and 23 % say it increases their trust .
Democrats feel warmly toward Clinton , while Republican views of her are very cold . Hillary Clinton is a polarizing figure in U.S. politics . In a survey conducted this spring , Democrats give her an average rating of 73 on a 0-to-100 `` feeling thermometer , '' where 100 is the warmest , most positive rating and zero the coldest , most negative . Republicans , on the other hand , give her an average rating of 12 , and 59 % give her a zero on the scale . Republicans ' deeply negative views of Clinton find a parallel in Democrats ' deeply negative views of Donald Trump , who rates an average of 11 on the scale , with about two-thirds of Democrats giving him a zero rating .
In 2009 ( the latest year available ) the median monthly earnings of young adults with a bachelor 's degree and no further education was $ 3,836 , a 13 % increase from 1984 ( $ 3,399 ) , according to the Census Bureau 's Survey of Income and Program Participation ( SIPP ) . The data also show that earnings of young workers with advanced degrees have grown even more than the earnings of those with bachelor 's degrees . The median monthly earnings of young adults with master 's degrees rose 23 % from 1984 ( $ 3,875 ) to 2009 ( $ 4,772 ) . Median earnings for those with professional and doctorate degrees is up even more –34 % .
Yet despite these gains , many seniors remain largely disconnected from the digital revolution . One-third of adults ages 65 and older say they never use the internet , and roughly half ( 49 % ) say they do not have home broadband services . Meanwhile , even with their recent gains , the proportion of seniors who say they own smartphones is 42 percentage points lower than those ages 18 to 64 . Seniors ages 65 to 69 are about twice as likely as those ages 80 and older to say they ever go online ( 82 % vs. 44 % ) or have broadband at home ( 66 % vs. 28 % ) , and they are roughly four times as likely to say they own smartphones ( 59 % vs. 17 % ) .
The new survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Oct. 1 - 13 among 3,487 adults , finds that 54 % currently approve of the House 's decision to conduct an impeachment inquiry , while 44 % disapprove . Neither party engenders a great deal of confidence that they will be `` fair and reasonable '' during the impeachment inquiry , the survey finds . About four-in-ten ( 43 % ) expect that the Republicans in Congress will be fair in handling the inquiry , while slightly more ( 47 % ) say the same about the Democrats in Congress .
India , with its emerging economy and vast population , is becoming an attractive market for news organizations looking to grow their international audience . The Huffington Post joined a growing number of outlets expanding into the country when it recently announced partnering with The Times of India to launch HuffPost India in November . News companies are betting on speedy growth in the digital market to replicate that of newspapers , given the potential for growth as more in India go online . Internet adoption in India is up — about three-fourths of the population own cell phones , and the country recently surpassed 100 million active Facebook users . Online news consumption is also increasing . India 's unique visitors to online news and information sites grew from 31 million in 2011 to 45 million in 2014 , an increase of 45 % , according to an analysis by comScore . And the government is actively trying to accelerate India 's move toward embracing digital technology .
The Pew Research Center analyzed about 600,000 tweets that directly referred to the government shutdown from September 27 - 30 . The largest component of the conversation ( 35 % of the assertions ) was made up of tweets relaying straight news accounts and information without comment , while 26 % focused on impact of a government shutdown , such as the effects on the stock market , federal employees or the economy as a whole . Almost as much of the Obamacare conversation ( 42 % ) focused on straight news as opinions over the law ( 43 % ) . Much less of the discussion involved the implementation of the health care changes . Confusion and concerns about potential problems associated with implementing the law made up 10 % , while messages pointing people to where they could get information about enrolling in the new exchanges made up 5 % . ( The analysis ended on Monday , Sept. 30 , the day before the exchanges became active . )
Two-thirds of the public ( 66 % ) heard at least a little about Rick Perry 's memory lapse at a Republican presidential candidate debate last week ; 36 % say they heard a lot and 30 % say they heard a little about this . Another third ( 33 % ) say they heard nothing at all . The public heard less about last week 's off-year elections and ballot initiatives , some of which were seen as indicators of voter sentiment heading into 2012 . Just 14 % say they heard a lot about the elections , while 39 % say they heard a little . Nearly half ( 46 % ) say they heard nothing at all about this news . Partisans are about equally likely to have heard at least a little about last week 's elections .
Among other economic sectors , views of news about real estate values continue to be among the most positive . About one-in-four ( 27 % ) are hearing mostly good news about real estate values and 23 % are hearing mostly bad news , while 40 % say the news is a mix .
Telephone poll estimates for party affiliation , political ideology and religious affiliation continue to track well with estimates from high response rate surveys conducted in-person , like the General Social Survey . This provides strong evidence that decisions to participate in telephone surveys are not strongly related to political , social or religious attitudes . So even at low response rates , telephone surveys that include interviews via landlines and cellphones , and that are adjusted to match the demographic profile of the U.S. , can produce accurate estimates for political attitudes . Analysis of telephone survey respondents versus nonrespondents on variables from a national voter file suggests that survey participation is not strongly linked to partisanship . Affiliation with a particular political party does not appear to affect the likelihood that a person will participate in telephone polls , though those who participate in polls tend to vote more often than people who are less likely to take surveys .
Less than a month before the 2018 midterm elections , Republicans and Democrats hold positive outlooks about the future of their respective parties , and in both cases these views are more positive than they were a year ago . Three-quarters of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say they are optimistic about the future of the Republican Party , up 16 percentage points from September 2017 , when 59 % felt this way , according to a new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 24-Oct. 7 among 10,683 adults on the American Trends Panel . The current level of optimism among Republicans is similar to what it was immediately following Donald Trump 's election in December 2016 ( 79 % ) . Democrats have a similarly bright outlook for their party – 77 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents say they are optimistic about the party 's future .
The Center 's representative sample of American Facebook users finds that 88 % say they are assigned categories in this system , while 11 % say that after they are directed to their ad preferences page they get a message saying , `` You have no behaviors . '' Some six-in-ten Facebook users report their preferences page lists either 10 to 20 ( 27 % ) or 21 or more ( 33 % ) categories for them , while 27 % note their list contains fewer than 10 categories .
Six-in-ten black adults ( 62 % ) say it is important for houses of worship to address `` political topics such as immigration and race relations '' – including 23 % who say covering these topics is `` essential . '' By contrast , 36 % of white Americans say it is important for sermons to deal with these topics , and only 8 % say it is essential . Four-in-ten white Americans ( 42 % ) say these themes should not be discussed in sermons . Hispanics are more divided on this issue than black or white Americans are ; about half ( 53 % ) say it is important for sermons to cover political issues .
About one-in-ten ( 12 % ) say they very closely followed news about tensions between Great Britain and Iran following an attack on the British embassy by Iranian protesters ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the situation in Iran accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Currently , about a third ( 36 % ) of assigned American ambassadors are women . Fully 50 % of U.S. ambassadorial posts in South and Central Asia are filled by women , making it the only region that reaches gender parity . Women are posted abroad in five nations in the region – the former Soviet states of Kyrgyzstan , Tajikistan and Uzbekistan , as well as Bangladesh and Nepal .
As confirmed cases of the coronavirus top 20 million globally , many in the countries surveyed say that count could have been minimized through stronger international cooperation . A 14-country median of 59 % say that if their country had cooperated more with other countries , the number of coronavirus cases would have been lower in their country . In comparison , a median of 36 % say such cooperation would have been futile in reducing cases .
In addition to the national government , the military is also seen in a favorable light , with nearly three-in-four ( 73 % ) saying it is having a good influence on the way things are going in the country . This represents a rebound from 2011 , when 62 % said the military was having a positive impact . Views of the court system and police are not as positive . Less than half of Mexicans see the courts ( 44 % ) and the police ( 38 % ) as having a good influence on the way things are going in the country . A year ago , opinions of the courts and police were even more negative , with only about three-in-ten giving either institution a positive rating .
A majority of officers said in 2016 that relations between the police in their department and black people in the community they serve were `` excellent '' ( 8 % ) or `` good '' ( 47 % ) . However , far higher shares saw excellent or good community relations with whites ( 91 % ) , Asians ( 88 % ) and Hispanics ( 70 % ) . About a quarter of police officers ( 26 % ) said relations between police and black people in their community were `` only fair , '' while nearly one-in-five ( 18 % ) said they were `` poor '' – with black officers far more likely than others to say so . ( These percentages are based on only those officers who offered a rating . )
Overall , a number of influential powers in the Middle East are not seen in a favorable light . Roughly one-third or fewer view Russia ( median of 35 % ) or the U.S. ( median of 27 % ) positively . Within the region , views of Iran are particularly poor ( 14 % favorable ) , though Saudi Arabia fares better ( 44 % ) . Middle Eastern and North African publics also tend to rate leaders of other countries in their region negatively . A median of roughly one-third have positive opinions of Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi and Saudi King Salman . Views of Jordanian King Abdullah II are similarly low . And very few view Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu favorably , while a median of 12 % have a positive view of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad or Iranian President Hassan Rouhani . Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan is the exception to the generally negative views , but opinion of him is still mixed .
When asked about major national institutions in Venezuela , there is a clear consensus that government-run organizations are having a bad influence on the country . More than six-in-ten say the national government ( 68 % ) , the court system ( 65 % ) and the military ( 63 % ) are having negative influences on the way things are going in Venezuela .
A majority of GOP voters ( 56 % ) say they would be more likely to support a candidate who wants to end federal funding for Planned Parenthood ; just 18 % would be less likely to support such a candidate . About half ( 53 % ) say they would be more likely to back a candidate who wants to deploy U.S. ground forces to fight ISIS ( 22 % less likely ) . Opinion among possible GOP primary voters is more divided over a candidate who wants to deport all immigrants who are in the U.S. illegally ( 43 % more likely , 29 % less likely ) or wants to compromise with members of the Democratic Party ( 41 % more likely , 27 % less likely ) . And nearly as many Republican voters say they would be less likely ( 34 % ) as more likely ( 31 % ) to support a candidate who wants to raise taxes on wealthy Americans ; 34 % say this would not be a major factor .
In the decade that brought the country into World War II , women typically lived with their parents until they married and only a small share attended college . Indeed , even in 1960 , only 5 % of 18- to 34-year-old women were college students . Today , women are five times more likely to be enrolled in college . According to 2014 figures , 27 % of young women were college students . Furthermore , while marriage typically promotes living independently of parents and other relatives , many young women are delaying marriage compared with earlier decades . In 2013 , young women were half as likely to be married ( 30 % ) as young women in 1940 ( 62 % ) . Census figures show that in 2014 , the typical woman began her first marriage at age 27 . In 1940 , it was 21.5 .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 16 - 22 , just under half of U.S. adults ( 47 % ) called the deficit `` a very big problem '' in the country today – down from 55 % in the fall of 2018 . Over roughly that same period , the deficit grew from $ 779.1 billion at the end of fiscal 2018 to $ 2.8 trillion as of the end of July , according to data reported Wednesday by the Treasury Department . ( The federal fiscal year ends on Sept . 30 . )
When it comes to defense spending , differences between Americans and Germans also emerge . When asked whether the U.S. 's European allies should increase , decrease or maintain their defense spending , half of Americans say that spending levels should remain the same . This marks a notable shift in view from 2017 , when 45 % of Americans felt their allies in Europe should dedicate more resources to national defense . Germans view their country 's defense spending differently . The public is divided on whether to increase or maintain current levels of spending on national defense , with about four-in-ten taking each view . Like in the U.S. , views on this issue in Germany have changed since 2017 . At that time , about half of Germans were content with their country 's defense spending , while about a third felt it should be increased .
Most Americans say they heard at least a little last week about President Obama 's decision to allow military trials of detainees at the Guantanamo Bay prison ( 63 % ) and the possibility that the National Football League season will be delayed or cancelled because of a labor dispute ( 57 % ) . Fewer say they heard about the resignation of NPR executives after the release of a video secretly made by conservative activists : 46 % percent had heard at least a little about this , while a majority – 53 % – had heard nothing at all . Just 16 % say they heard a lot about the NPR resignations , while 30 % heard a little about this story . There were no partisan differences in how likely people were to have heard a lot about the secretly-recorded NPR video . Democrats , however , were slightly more likely than Republicans to have heard nothing at all about this ( 58 % versus 47 % ) . Another 16 % say they heard a lot about President Obama 's decision to resume military trials at Guantanamo Bay . Almost half of the public ( 47 % ) say they had heard a little about this story , while 37 % had heard nothing at all . One-in-five ( 20 % ) say they heard a lot about a possible delay or cancellation of the upcoming NFL season because of a labor dispute ; 37 % had heard a little and 42 % had heard nothing at all about this story .
Americans are much less likely to see Germany in this way – only 12 % name Germany as one of America 's top two partners . Still , Germany does make the top four , trailing Great Britain ( 33 % ) and China ( 24 % ) and tying with Israel ( 12 % ) .
The partisan gap is even more pronounced on the question of whether `` good jobs '' are available ( half of respondents are asked about `` job '' availability , half are asked about `` good jobs '' availability ) . While 57 % of Republicans say there are plenty of `` good jobs '' ( little different than the share who say there are plenty of jobs ) , just 32 % of Democrats say this .
Americans with lower family incomes are also more supportive of parental choice and less supportive of mandatory MMR vaccination . About two-in-ten lower-income Americans ( 21 % ) say parents should be able to decide not to vaccinate for MMR , while just 9 % of upper-income Americans say the same .
In a recent survey of what Americans know about science , we asked people to interpret the chart you see here and tell us what it showed . Six-in-ten ( 63 % ) identify the best interpretation of this chart as `` the more sugar people eat , the more likely they are to get cavities . ''
About two-thirds of U.S. adults ( 68 % ) say the federal government has a responsibility to provide medical care to undocumented immigrants who are ill with the coronavirus , even as relatively few ( 37 % ) say the government should offer economic help to undocumented immigrants who have lost their job due to the outbreak , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29 to May 5 . Views on these questions vary widely by race and ethnicity , partisan identification and other characteristics . Hispanics are the most supportive of the federal government providing medical and economic support to undocumented immigrants affected by the coronavirus outbreak . The vast majority of Hispanics ( 86 % ) say the government has a responsibility to provide medical care , and around six-in-ten ( 62 % ) say the same about economic help . Hispanic immigrants are more likely than U.S.-born Hispanics ( 68 % vs. 55 % ) to support federal economic help for undocumented immigrants affected by the outbreak , but views between the two groups are more similar when it comes to medical care ( 88 % vs. 83 % ) . A strong majority of black adults ( 80 % ) also say the federal government has a responsibility to provide medical care , while about half ( 55 % ) say the government should provide economic help to undocumented immigrants affected by the coronavirus . By contrast , far lower shares of white adults say the government should provide medical care ( 61 % ) and economic help ( 27 % ) .
In our 2014 report on Political Polarization in the American Public , we used a scale based on 10 political values questions about the role of government , the environment , homosexuality and other issues to measure the direction and consistency of a person 's ideological thinking . How a person 's political values line up is strongly related to his or her partisanship , and whether political values line up in a consistent way is strongly related to whether he or she participates in politics or not . The financially secure and insecure differ in both the direction and consistency of their political values . In general , the financially secure are more likely to have ideologically consistent views , that is , political values that are consistently liberal or consistently conservative across multiple dimensions . The financially insecure are much less likely to have consistent opinions and values : 51 % hold a diverse mix of liberal and conservative values , compared with just 24 % among the most secure group . People who hold an inconsistent mix of liberal and conservative values are far less likely to be interested in politics , to express a preference between the Democrats and Republicans , to hold strong opinions about the parties or to vote .
Americans eat more chicken and less beef than they used to . They drink less milk – especially whole milk – and eat less ice cream , but they consume way more cheese . Their diets include less sugar than in prior decades but a lot more corn-derived sweeteners . And while the average American eats the equivalent of 1.2 gallons of yogurt a year , he or she also consumes 36 pounds of cooking oils – more than three times as much as in the early 1970s .
There also are differences in public priorities about energy by age . Americans under the age of 50 are especially likely to support alternative energy sources over expanding fossil fuels . About seven-in-ten ( 73 % ) of those ages 18 to 49 say developing alternative sources of energy should be the more important priority , while 22 % say expanding production of fossil fuels should be the more important priority . Older adults are more divided in their views , though they also give more priority to alternatives . Among those 50 and older , 55 % say alternative energy development is more important , while 34 % say it 's more important to expand production of fossil fuel energy sources .
The public and the media went their own ways on the news last week . The media kept up heavy coverage of the aftermath of the attempt to blow up a Detroit-bound jet on Christmas Day , while the public focused most closely on the health care debate in Washington . About a quarter ( 26 % ) of Americans say the debate over health care reform was the story they followed most closely , while 17 % say they followed news about the government 's response to the attempted terror attack on a Northwest Airlines jet more closely than any other major story . By another measure , the percentage of Americans saying they followed the government 's response to the failed terror attack `` very closely '' rivals interest in the other major stories of the week : 37 % say they followed this story very closely . Just more than four-in-ten ( 42 % ) say they followed news about the harsh winter weather very closely , while 39 % each say the same about the economy and the health care debate , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted Jan. 8 - 11 among 1,043 adults nationwide by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . While 26 % of Americans say they tracked the debate over health care legislation more closely than any other story last week , coverage of news related to the debate was limited . It accounted for just 4 % of the newshole examined by PEJ . News about the economy – the most closely followed story for 17 % of the public last week – accounted for 10 % of the newshole .
Internet usage is also strongly correlated with income . Generally , the higher a country 's GDP per capita , the higher its percentage of internet users . The three nations with the highest per capita incomes in this survey – Chile , Argentina and Russia – also have the highest internet usage rates . Meanwhile , these rates are especially low in two of the poorest countries surveyed , Pakistan and Uganda , where roughly nine-in-ten never go online . Some nations , such as Kenya , Jordan , Egypt and Bolivia have more people online than might be anticipated , given their per capita income .
The nation 's elderly population—people ages 65 and older—will grow to 81 million in 2050 , up from 37 million in 2005 . This group will grow more rapidly than the overall population , so its share will increase to 19 % in 2050 , from 12 % in 2005 . ( Figure 7 ) Immigration will account for only a small part of that growth .
The share of Americans with a positive view of the federal government fell to 28 % in April , five points lower than the previous year , while public favorability of state government ticked up five points to 57 % . Fully 41 % of Democrats held favorable views of the federal government , compared with only 13 % of Republicans . By contrast , state and local governments are viewed favorably across party lines : 56 % of Democrats and 57 % of Republicans said they had a favorable opinion of their state government . But the partisan makeup of the state government matters : Republicans give more positive ratings to GOP-led state governments , while Democrats rate Democratic-led state governments more highly . Similarly , local governments also received positive ratings , with 67 % of Democrats and 63 % of Republicans seeing them favorably .
Law and order is a priority for most Tunisians – 81 % believe that stability is crucial for Tunisia 's future . More than six-in-ten also think that the freedom to peacefully protest ( 68 % ) , equal rights for women ( 66 % ) , freedom to criticize the government ( 64 % ) and an uncensored media ( 63 % ) are critical for Tunisia 's future .
As well-publicized bouts of violence , from civil war to suicide bombings , plague the Middle East , Africa and South Asia , concern about Islamic extremism is high among countries with substantial Muslim populations , according to a new survey by the Pew Research Center . And in the Middle East , concern is growing . Lebanese , Tunisians , Egyptians , Jordanians and Turks are all more worried about the extremist threat than they were a year ago .
The accusations have coincided with a drop in the share of U.S. Catholics who approve of the way the pope is handling the abuse crisis . Just three-in-ten American Catholics ( 31 % ) now say the pontiff is doing a `` good '' ( 18 % ) or `` excellent '' ( 13 % ) job of addressing the sex abuse scandal , according to a new survey from Pew Research Center . This is much lower than the 54 % who gave Francis good or excellent marks in February 2014 ( almost a year after he became pope ) , and the 45 % who did so at the beginning of 2018 . Meanwhile , 62 % of American Catholics now say the pontiff is doing only a `` fair '' or `` poor '' job of handling the scandal .
The use of video sharing sites currently outranks many other headline-snatching internet pastimes among American adults . Watching online videos on sites like YouTube is more prevalent than the use of social networking sites ( 46 % of adult internet users are active on such sites ) , podcast downloading ( 19 % of internet users do this ) and the use of status updating sites like Twitter ( 11 % of internet users do this ) .
Republicans ' ratings of their own party 's leadership have declined once again , hitting a record low . Today , just 32 % of Republicans approve of their party 's congressional leaders down from 41 % in May and 50 % in February . Just 15 % of independents rate Republican leaders in Congress positively , which is little changed from May and six points lower than in February . Democratic congressional leaders also do not fare especially well among independents ; 27 % approve of their job performance . Among Democrats , though , ratings of their own party 's leadership are much more positive than Republicans ' ratings of GOP leaders . Nearly two-thirds of Democrats ( 65 % ) approve of the job performance of Democratic leaders .
Despite economic reforms , the state still dominates . In a paper published last year by the Association for the Study of the Cuban Economy , former International Monetary Fund economist Ernesto Hernandez-Cata estimated that Cuba 's private and cooperative sector generated 25.3 % of GDP in 2012 , compared with just 5 % in 1989 . But the government , both directly and through state-owned enterprises , was still the source of more than three-quarters of Cuba 's economic activity . Government investment represented just 9.1 % of GDP in 2012 , versus 14.2 % in 1989 , which Hernandez-Cata said `` reveals one of the most disturbing aspects of Cuba 's recent economic history : the weakness of capital formation . '' ( Official government figures put economy-wide fixed capital investment , from all sources , at 8.3 % of GDP in 2013 , considered low by international standards . )
Sharing ideas : In addition , 72 % of internet users say digital technologies have improved their ability to share their ideas and creations with others . These figures have risen since 2006 , when we found that 55 % of online adults felt the internet improved their ability to share their ideas and creations . It is likely that a major contributor to the increase in this measurement is the rise of social networking sites , which were not heavily in use in in 2006 . Social networking sites are used by more than two-thirds of those who go online now .
Although there has always been a separation of church and state in the U.S. , it has never prevented religion and religious groups from playing a big role in the country 's political life . Now , as the nation heads into midterm elections , a new Pew Research Center survey finds that many Americans support a role for religion in the political arena and lament what they see as religion 's declining influence in society . A growing percentage of U.S. adults ( now 72 % ) think that religion is losing influence in American life . Moreover , most people who feel this way think this is a bad thing . Overall , a majority ( 56 % ) of the total U.S. population perceives religion as losing influence in American life and says that 's a bad thing .
About six-in-ten Syrians are now displaced from their homes , a number unprecedented in recent history for a single country . The Syrian conflict has displaced millions of citizens since protests against the al-Assad government began more than five years ago . Today , an estimated 12.5 million Syrians are displaced , up from less than 1 million in 2011 , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of global refugee data . Displaced Syrians worldwide include those internally displaced within Syria , refugees living in neighboring countries or relocated to other countries like Canada and the U.S. , and those in Europe awaiting a decision on their asylum application .
For its part , the media devoted 16 % of coverage to the WikiLeaks story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . Tallying together the economic themes , PEJ found them receiving more than a quarter of coverage : the economy in general ( 11 % ) , the debate over what to do about the Bush era income tax cuts ( 11 % ) and discussions in Washington about how to reduce the federal deficit ( 7 % ) .
Far fewer are familiar with the specifics relating to the GOP 's victories . Fewer than half ( 46 % ) know that the Republicans will have a majority only in the House of Representatives when the new Congress convenes in January , while 38 % can identify John Boehner as the incoming House speaker .
A similar pattern to those seen with the urban-rural and racial composition of each district emerges in the relationship between the partisan leanings of a district and deaths attributable to the coronavirus . In the early stages of the pandemic , the hardest hit districts were overwhelmingly `` blue '' parts of the country . COVID-19 deaths in the March through May period were more than four times as high in strongly Democratic districts ( where Republican congressional candidates received less than 25 % of the vote in the 2018 midterm elections ) as in districts where Republican candidates won more than 60 % of the 2018 vote .
The movement of minority students into suburban school districts since 1993 - 94 has had an impact on national trends in minority student isolation . Nationally , the typical black student in 2006 - 07 attended a school that was 52 % black , down from 54 % black in 1993 - 94 . This modest decline is partly attributable to the fact that a greater share of black students are now educated in suburban schools , where they tend to be less isolated than in city schools . Nationally , the typical Hispanic student in 2006 - 07 attended a school that was 55 % Hispanic , up from 52 % Hispanic in 1993 - 94 . The increase in Hispanic isolation nationally would have been even greater in the absence of the shift of Hispanic students out of city school districts and into suburban areas . Nationally , the typical Asian student in 2006 - 07 attended a school that was 23 % Asian , up from 22 % in 1993 - 94 .
The death of Justice Antonin Scalia , and the subsequent partisan wrangling over whether the Senate should act on any nominee sent to it by President Obama , has cast a spotlight on an institution that many people know little about . But in a Pew Research Center survey released earlier this week , about seven-in-ten Americans said they had heard a lot ( 45 % ) or a little ( 26 % ) about Scalia 's death and the vacancy on the court ; fully 94 % expressed an opinion on whether the Senate should hold hearings and vote on Obama 's eventual nominee .
Despite the public 's continued negative assessment of the national economy , half of Americans expect that economic conditions in the country will be better a year from now ( down modestly from the 55 % who said this in April ) . Just 22 % of the public thinks that economic conditions will be worse , and 27 % think economic conditions will be about the same as they are today . Most Republicans are optimistic about future economic conditions in the country : Two-thirds of Republicans say economic conditions in the country will be better a year from now , while 12 % say they will be worse and 20 % expect conditions to be about the same as they are today . Democrats are more divided : While 38 % think the economy will be better a year from now , 30 % say it will be worse and 32 % expect conditions will be about the same .
A survey this summer found that women are much more likely than men to say gender discrimination is a major problem in the technology industry ( 44 % vs. 29 % ) . And when asked about race-related biases , 64 % of blacks and 50 % of Hispanics said discrimination against blacks and Hispanics is a major problem in the tech industry . By comparison , just 21 % of whites said this is a major problem .
There is a substantial partisan gap in views of how Obama will go down in history . Fully 71 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say he will be remembered as an outstanding ( 30 % ) or above average ( 40 % ) president , while just 4 % predict history will consider him below average or poor ( 24 % expect him to be viewed as average ) . By contrast , nearly six-in-ten ( 57 % ) Republicans and Republican leaners say he will be remembered as below average ( 21 % ) or poor ( 36 % ) , while just 15 % say he 'll go down in history as outstanding or above average ( 26 % say he 'll be considered average ) .
Overall , few assess the American response to the coronavirus outbreak positively . In no country surveyed do more than a fifth think the U.S. has done at least a somewhat good job dealing with the virus , and a median of only 15 % across the 13 countries polled consider the country 's handling of the virus to be effective . While positive assessments of the U.S. response to the coronavirus outbreak are scarce overall , in some countries , they are in the single digits : Only 6 % in South Korea , 7 % in Denmark and 9 % in Germany think the U.S. has dealt well with the virus . Spaniards hold the most positive assessments of the American response , but even there , only one-in-five think the U.S. has handled the outbreak well .
Bullying rates have held steady in recent years , according to a survey of youth risk behaviors by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . About a fifth of high school students ( 19 % in 2017 ) reported being bullied on school property in the past 12 months , and 14.9 % said they 'd experienced cyberbullying ( via texts , social media or other digital means ) in the previous year . In both cases , girls , younger students , and students who identified as gay , lesbian or bisexual were more likely to say they 'd been bullied .
Even though many in Africa struggle to afford life 's basic necessities , there is still considerable optimism about the future . A median of 50 % believe children in their country today will be better off financially than their parents . Just 37 % think children will be worse off . Optimism is especially widespread in Nigeria and Ghana , where nearly two-thirds say children will be better off . It is less common in Uganda and South Africa , where opinion is roughly divided between optimists and pessimists . Egypt is the least hopeful among the African nations studied – just 22 % predict children will be better off than their parents .
The controversy over the firing of eight U.S. attorneys is not attracting strong public interest in spite of intense media coverage of the story . In fact , the story evokes a typical response from the public when compared with news interest in past Washington scandals . Amid calls for Attorney General Alberto Gonzales ' resignation , the news media 's coverage of the story outstripped public interest . Most Americans remained focused on the Iraq war and the problems facing returning soldiers . Overall , 19 % of the public paid very close attention to news about the fired U.S. attorneys and 8 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The news media devoted 16 % of its coverage overall to the firings – an eight-fold increase over the week of March 5 – making it the most covered story of the week . Public interest increased as well though at a lower rate . Democrats followed the U.S. attorneys story more closely than Republicans ( 23 % vs. 15 % , respectively , followed it very closely ) .This story did generate more public interest than the recent verdict in the Scooter Libby trial – one of last week 's most covered news stories . Only 13 % followed that story very closely . While the news media focused on how Gonzales and the White House were connected to the U.S. attorney firings , the public remained intensely focused on the Iraq War . Fully 34 % said they followed news about the situation in Iraq very closely and 23 % listed Iraq as the story they followed most closely last week . Nearly as many ( 31 % ) followed news about conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and more general stories about problems with medical care for wounded soldiers returning from Iraq . Some 17 % said this was the story they followed most closely . Coverage of this story fell off somewhat from the previous week— 4 % of coverage in all media sectors was devoted to this story last week vs. 6 % the week of March 5 .
Online dating users are more likely to describe their overall experience with using dating sites or apps in positive , rather than negative , terms . Some 57 % of Americans who have ever used a dating site or app say their own personal experiences with these platforms have been very or somewhat positive . Still , about four-in-ten online daters ( 42 % ) describe their personal experience with dating sites or apps as at least somewhat negative .
The view that a country protects freedom of speech informs how people feel democracy is working in their country . Perceptions of whether a country protects free speech are crucial in explaining dissatisfaction with democracy : People who say freedom of expression is protected in their country are less dissatisfied with democracy . However , there 's no relationship between dissatisfaction with democracy or the perception that freedom of speech is protected and measures of whether a country protects civil liberties , such as those compiled by Freedom House . Take Spain : The country receives a top score for protections of these rights , but only around half of Spanish adults ( 48 % ) believe their country protects their rights to free speech .
When asked if people leaving for jobs in other countries posed a problem for India , more than six-in-ten ( 64 % ) said this type of emigration was a problem , including nearly half ( 49 % ) saying it is a very big problem . Although outmigration itself may not be viewed favorably , in 2016 Indian migrants abroad collectively sent nearly $ 63 billion worth of remittances back to family and friends living in India , or roughly 3 % of total gross domestic product .
There are fundamental partisan differences over whether elections would be less secure if the rules were changed to make it easier for people to register and vote , according to the June survey . Overall , six-in-ten U.S. adults said elections would not be less secure , while 37 % said they would be . But while around eight-in-ten Democrats ( 79 % ) said that making it easier to vote would not make elections any less secure , a majority of Republicans ( 59 % ) said the opposite .
Overall , the stock market was in the top tier of news stories , both in terms of public interest and news coverage during the week of Feb. 26 . In a week crowded with news , the situation in Iraq maintained the top spot , as 37 % of the public followed this story very closely and 30 % listed it as the story they followed most closely . News about Iraq , both the policy debate and events on the ground , made up 11 % of the newshole for the week . The public also paid very close attention to the deadly tornadoes in the South . Fully one-third followed this story very closely and 20 % listed it as their top story . News coverage of the tornadoes , which occurred late in the week , made up 6 % of the newshole . Interest in the Anna Nicole Smith saga remained about the same last week , in spite of the fact that media coverage of the story dropped off significantly . Some 14 % of the public followed the Smith story very closely ( basically unchanged from 13 % the previous week ) , and 13 % listed Smith 's death when asked which story they had followed most closely . As has been the case since the story broke , younger women remain the most riveted by Smith 's story . Women under age 50 were nearly three times more likely than men in that same age group to say Smith 's death was the story they followed most closely last week ( 23 % vs. 8 % , respectively ) . Other top stories of the week included the 2008 presidential campaign and the terrorist bombing in Afghanistan outside a base where Vice President Dick Cheney was staying . The campaign continues to attract more attention than the 2004 presidential contest did in its early stages . The Afghanistan bombing was followed very closely by 19 % of the public ; 3 % said this was the story they followed most closely . News coverage of this , which went beyond the bombing to include the broader situation in Afghanistan , was substantial ( 4 % of the newshole ) .
While a 57 % majority of conservative Republicans and leaners think the Supreme Court should overturn the decision , just 27 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say the same . In fact , 71 % of moderate and liberal Republicans think the court should not completely overturn Roe v. Wade . Majorities across all levels of education say the court should not overturn Roe v. Wade . Still , higher levels of education are associated with less support for overturning the decision : Nearly nine-in-ten of those with postgraduate degrees ( 88 % ) say the court should not overturn the decision , compared with about seven-in-ten of those with a college degree ( 74 % ) or some college experience ( 70 % ) and 62 % of those with a high school diploma or less education .
For instance , while a majority of Israeli Muslims ( 68 % ) say religion is very important in their lives , this share is substantially lower than the 89 % who say the same in Morocco or the 85 % in the nearby Palestinian territories and Jordan . Lebanon is the only country polled in the region where a slim majority of Muslims say religion is very important in their personal lives ( 59 % ) .
For one thing , not all registered voters end up voting . In 2016 , around 87 % of registered voters cast a ballot , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data shortly after that year 's election .
While the two presidential candidates received roughly the same amount of news coverage last week , Obama was clearly the most visible candidate in the eyes of the public . According to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , Obama was featured prominently in 79 % of all campaign news stories last week and McCain was featured in 74 % . More than half of the public ( 53 % ) says Obama was the candidate they heard the most about in the news last week , while only 25 % name McCain .
Still , based on our own survey and demographic research , as well as outside sources , Pew Research Center estimates that there were about 3.45 million Muslims of all ages living in the U.S. in 2017 , and that Muslims made up about 1.1 % of the total U.S. population . Since our first estimate of the size of the Muslim American population , the number of U.S. Muslims has been growing rapidly , albeit from a relatively low base . When we first conducted a study of Muslim Americans in 2007 , we estimated that there were 2.35 million Muslims of all ages ( including 1.5 million adults ) in the U.S. By 2011 , the number of Muslims had grown to 2.75 million ( including 1.8 million adults ) . Since then , the Muslim population has continued to grow at a rate of roughly 100,000 per year , driven both by higher fertility rates among Muslim Americans as well as the continued migration of Muslims to the U.S .
Millennials are the only generation that is more likely to own a laptop or netbook ( 70 % ) than a desktop computer ( 57 % ) . While 69 % of adults in Generation X own a desktop , a close 61 % own a laptop . While roughly six in ten adults ages 47 - 65 own a desktop , only 49 % of Younger Boomers and 43 % of Older Boomers own a laptop .
There are more modest partisan divisions on other survey questions about the impact of higher education . In a study last year of attitudes about the state of American jobs , majorities in both parties – regardless of their level of educational attainment – said a four-year degree prepares someone very or somewhat well for a well-paying job in today 's economy . However , Democrats and Democratic leaners were more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say this ( 73 % vs. 62 % ) .
The more negative expectations for 2015 are driven in large part by a shift in views among Democrats . A month after the Republican Party gained full control of Congress , 60 % of Democrats expect 2015 to be better than 2014 . That is down 21 points from a year ago when 81 % thought 2014 would be better than 2013 . Nonetheless , views among Democrats are brighter than those of Republicans : just 34 % of Republicans expect the coming year to be better than the last , little changed from prospective views of 2014 ( 33 % better ) . In December 2012 , following Barack Obama 's reelection , just 22 % of Republicans thought 2013 would be a better year than 2012 .
Currently , 40 % of the public says that the ability of terrorists to launch another major attack on the United States is greater than it was at the time of the 9/11 attacks , which is the highest share expressing this view over the past 14 years . About a third ( 31 % ) say terrorists ' abilities to attack are the same as at the time of 9/11 , while just 25 % say their ability to initiate a major attack is less than at that time .
Among the Germans and Americans who hold the view that TTIP would be a bad thing , their opposition is fueled by different concerns . Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) of the Germans against TTIP say they fear the deal would lower German food , environmental and auto safety standards . Just 18 % believe it would give foreign companies that invest in Germany unfair advantages . And only 17 % worry it would lead to job losses or a decrease in workers ' wages . Older Germans ( 77 % ) and women ( 65 % ) are the most worried about TTIP undermining German standards . Among those Americans who voice the opinion that TTIP would be bad for the U.S. , fears focus on its potentially adverse impact on jobs and wages ( 50 % ) .
Angela Merkel is held in higher esteem by Democrats than Republicans . Overall , 38 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners view her favorably , while 18 % view her unfavorably and 44 % are unable to rate her . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , 31 % hold an unfavorable view of the German chancellor , compared with 22 % who have a favorable view and 47 % who do not offer a rating .
A median of just 51 % across 10 EU countries surveyed have a favorable view of the European Union . A median of 42 % in these 10 nations want more power returned to their national capitals , while only 19 % favor giving Brussels more power and 27 % favor the status quo . Nevertheless , a median of 70 % in the nine EU nations surveyed that do n't get a vote June 23 believe it would be bad for the EU if the UK decided to depart . Only 16 % say it would be a good thing .
Conservatives ( 25 % ) are a bit more likely than either moderates ( 15 % ) or liberals ( 9 % ) to say that parents should be able to decide not to have their children vaccinated even if that creates health risks for others . At least seven-in-ten of all three ideology groups say that the MMR vaccine should be required for healthy schoolchildren , however . There are no significant differences in views about this issue by political party in this survey .
More Americans get news on social media than from print newspapers . In 2018 , one-in-five adults said they often get news on social media . And Facebook continues to dominate as the most common social media site used for news by Americans : About four-in-ten Americans ( 43 % ) get news on this site .
When asked to weigh the importance of a good democracy versus a strong economy , 73 % of people express the opinion that a strong economy is more important , a significant increase from last year and a 14 point jump in two years . Just a quarter prioritize a good democracy , down steeply from 2012 when 40 % said a good democracy was more important .
About half of Americans ( 49 % ) think at least `` some '' U.S. Muslims are anti-American , greater than the share who say `` just a few '' or `` none '' are anti-American , according to a January 2016 survey . Views on this question have become much more partisan in the last 14 years ( see graphic ) . But most Americans do not see widespread support for extremism among Muslims living in the U.S. , according to a February 2017 survey . Overall , 40 % say there is not much support for extremism among U.S. Muslims , while an additional 15 % say there is none at all . About a quarter say there is a fair amount of support ( 24 % ) for extremism among U.S. Muslims ; 11 % say there is a great deal of support .
With the rise of U.S. refugee arrivals from Middle Eastern and African countries , Arabic has become the most spoken language of incoming refugees . In fiscal 2017 , nearly a quarter of refugees entering the U.S. ( 23 % , or more than 12,000 people ) spoke Arabic ; most of them came from Syria and Iraq . As the number of Arabic-speaking refugee arrivals has grown in recent years , no other single language has accounted for as high a number of total refugee admissions into the U.S. since 2002 . The rise of Arabic as a leading language of U.S. refugees was preceded by high shares of refugees speaking Somali . In 2004 through 2006 , Somali was the leading language of refugees entering the U.S . Overall , between 2002 and 2017 , more than 95,000 Somali-speaking refugees entered the U.S .
Projects by the U.S. Census Bureau indicate that by 2025 , nearly three-in-ten children in this country will be of Latino ancestry . Pew Hispanic Center population projects indicate that the generational composition of Hispanic children will change yet again between now and then . Today 's large cohort of second-generation Hispanic children will eventually form families and produce third-generation offspring . The Center 's projections show that the share of Hispanic children who are second generation will likely peak not much above the current level of 52 % and then begin falling roughly a decade from now . The share of Hispanic children who are third generation or higher will likely hit bottom at 35 % around 2015 and then begin rising . Given past trends , this change in the generational composition of Hispanic children could well have an impact on their employment , education and social outcomes in future years .
In a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March , 63 % of people said they had a favorable opinion of their local government , a level that 's stayed fairly constant over several years ; 57 % expressed favorable views of their state government , a five-point uptick from last year . But just 28 % rated the federal government favorably , versus 65 % unfavorably ; the favorability rating was five points lower than a year earlier and the lowest ever in a Pew Research Center survey .
According to a September 2011 Pew Research survey , 95 % of Americans born in 1955 or earlier said they could recall exactly where they were or what they were doing when Kennedy was killed . That compares with 81 % of adults asked in 2011 who remember those details when Osama bin Laden was killed in 2011 , and 72 % when Martin Luther King , Jr. was killed in 1968 , according to the same survey . The only other event that weighed on American consciousness to such an extent was the 9/11 terrorist attacks ( 97 % ) . ( Survey questions were filtered to people who were at least eight years of age at the time of each historical event . )
More than one-in-three American labor force participants ( 35 % ) are Millennials , making them the largest generation in the U.S. labor force , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . As of 2017 – the most recent year for which data are available – 56 million Millennials ( those ages 21 to 36 in 2017 ) were working or looking for work . That was more than the 53 million Generation Xers , who accounted for a third of the labor force . And it was well ahead of the 41 million Baby Boomers , who represented a quarter of the total . Millennials surpassed Gen Xers in 2016 . Meanwhile , the oldest members of the post-Millennial generation ( those born after 1996 ) are now of working age . Last year , 9 million post-Millennials ( those who have reached working age , 16 to 20 ) were employed or looking for work , comprising 5 % of the labor force .
While there is not clear majority support among either party for this , Democrats and independents who lean toward the Democratic Party are more likely than their Republican and Republican-leaning counterparts to believe that the government should have a role in providing these services . Roughly half of Democrats ( 52 % ) say the federal government has a responsibility to ensure that all Americans have a high-speed internet connection at home during the COVID-19 outbreak , while just 22 % of Republicans hold his view . Democrats are also about twice as likely as Republicans to believe the federal government has responsibility to provide cellphone service for all Americans amid this crisis ( 45 % vs. 21 % ) .
Americans stayed focused on the unfolding oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico last week , while the effort to cap the underwater well and limit the damage was one of two stories that dominated media coverage . The media devoted comparable levels of coverage to the spill and news about last week 's primaries and the 2010 midterm elections ( each accounted for 18 % of the newshole ) , but the public showed much less interest in the political developments ( 5 % followed this most closely ) than the crisis in the gulf ( 46 % most closely ) .
Younger voters are less likely than older voters to say the 2018 outcome really matters within both party coalitions . But Democratic voters ages 18 to 34 ( 65 % ) are more likely than their young Republican counterparts ( 51 % ) to select the highest importance option on the four-point scale .
And women have largely exercised this right : In every U.S. presidential election dating back to 1984 , women reported having turned out to vote at slightly higher rates than men , according to a new analysis of Census Bureau data by the Center . At the same time , the gender gap in party affiliation continues to widen . In 2016 , 63 % of women who were eligible to vote said they cast ballots in the presidential election , compared with 59 % of men . That 4 percentage point gender gap is similar to the 4-point gaps in 2012 and 2008 as well as the 3-point gaps in 2004 , 2000 and 1996 . In 1980 , when voter turnout data first became available , there was no gender gap in turnout : 64 % of both men and women reported turning out to vote in that year 's election . These patterns are also similar for midterm elections .
In 2018 , Asian and white immigrants were much more likely than Hispanic and black immigrants to work in nonmechanical , high-skill occupations . For example , 42 % of Asian immigrants and 36 % of white immigrants worked in jobs where analytical skills are most important , such as chemical engineers and computer programmers , compared with 23 % of black immigrants and just 11 % of Hispanic immigrants . There were similar differences in jobs in which fundamental and managerial skills are most important . White immigrants were more likely than those in other groups to work in jobs prioritizing social skills . Hispanic immigrants are most likely to be employed in lower-skill nonmechanical occupations . In 2018 , the majority of Hispanic immigrants worked in occupations where analytical ( 57 % ) and fundamental ( 51 % ) skills are least important , and four-in-ten or more worked in occupations in which social or managerial skills are least important . These shares were significantly higher than those among other immigrant groups . For example , about one-in-five or fewer black , white and Asian immigrants were employed in occupations where social skills were least important .
Despite some challenges , 50 % of these teachers ( across all subjects ) say the internet and digital tools make it easier for them to teach writing , while just 18 % say digital technologies make teaching writing more difficult . The remaining 31 % see no real impact .
Underlying these differences is a substantial – and growing – partisan divide over whether immigrants generally are a strength or burden on the country . For more than 20 years , Pew Research Center has been asking whether immigrants in the U.S. `` strengthen our country because of their hard work and talents , '' or whether they `` are a burden on our country because they take our jobs , housing and health care . '' In that time period , opinions about immigrants have shifted dramatically . In our latest national political survey , released in March , 59 % of the public say immigrants strengthen the country , while 33 % describe them as a burden . In 1994 , opinions were nearly the reverse : 63 % said immigrants were a burden and 31 % said they strengthened the country . Between 1994 and 2005 , Republicans ' and Democrats ' views of immigrants tracked one another closely . Beginning around 2006 , however , they began to diverge . In October that year , the partisan gap between Republicans and Democrats grew to 15 percentage points . Since then , the share of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents saying that immigrants strengthen the country steadily increased , from 49 % then to 78 % now , while the share with this view among Republicans and Republican leaners has shown little change ( 34 % then , 35 % today ) .
Yet the new analysis shows that Hispanic population dispersion , while continuing , has also slowed since 2007 . For example , the share of U.S. counties with at least 1,000 Hispanics rose more rapidly before the onset of the Great Recession than after : Between 2000 and 2007 , there was an 8-percentage-point gain in the share of U.S. counties with at least 1,000 Hispanics , rising to 46 % from 38 % in 2000 . Yet while half of U.S. counties met this criterion in 2014 , the share that did so was up only 4 percentage points since 2007 , when 46 % of all counties did . Other measures of dispersion show a similar slowing trend ( see Chapter 1 for more details ) .
Yet Obama 's personal favorability is positive on balance , with 51 % viewing him favorably and 45 % expressing an unfavorable opinion . Michelle Obama 's favorability rating continues to be much higher than the president 's : Fully 68 % view Michelle Obama favorably , compared with just 24 % who view her unfavorably .
A majority of Americans believe the U.S. is one of the greatest nations in the world . More than eight-in-ten ( 85 % ) said in a June 2017 survey that the U.S. either `` stands above all other countries in the world '' ( 29 % ) or that it is `` one of the greatest countries , along with some others '' ( 56 % ) . While large shares in all adult generations say America is among the greatest countries , those in the Silent Generation ( ages 73 to 90 in 2018 ) are the most likely to say the U.S. `` stands above '' all others ( 46 % ) , while Millennials are the least likely to say this ( 18 % ) .
In only six of the 16 countries surveyed do a majority of people feel their national economy is in good shape . Even before the Brexit vote caused economic turmoil , Europeans generally took a depressed view of the economy . In seven of the 10 European countries surveyed , roughly half or less see their country 's economic situation as good . Greeks stand out as the least happy , with only 2 % saying the Greek economy is doing well . Similarly , just 12 % in France and 13 % in Spain give their economy a positive rating . Swedes and Germans , on the other hand , are the most confident in their respective economies among the European Union countries surveyed , with 76 % in Sweden and 75 % in Germany saying the economic situation is good . Roughly six-in-ten ( 61 % ) in the Netherlands also express this view . While there is still considerable economic gloom in Europe , sentiments have improved in several nations over the past few years . Ratings for the German economy are significantly better today than they were in the midst of the global financial crisis in 2009 ( 28 % good ) . British and Polish views are much more positive than three years ago , and even though only a third of Italians rate their economy positively , this is much higher than the 3 % who agreed in 2013 . In contrast , the public mood has remained glum in Spain , France and Greece in recent years .
Voters also are more likely to say the campaign so far is too negative than to say it is not ( 71 % vs. 23 % ) . Across party lines , majorities of Democrats ( 75 % ) and Republicans ( 65 % ) describe the campaign this way . More see this year 's campaign as too negative than in recent election cycles . The share saying this now ( 71 % ) is 20 points higher than it was in September 2012 , when just about half thought the campaign was too negative , and is up 28 points from September 2008 , when more thought that the campaign was not too negative ( 51 % ) than said it was ( 43 % ) . In 2004 , a somewhat smaller majority of voters described the campaign as too negative ( 62 % ) than say so now .
Religious people tend to be more skeptical of embryonic gene editing than those who are less religious . Only 34 % of highly religious adults ( based on an index of common measures ) say they would want to employ gene editing to reduce their child 's risk of disease . Among those who have a low level of religious commitment , almost twice as many ( 63 % ) tell us they would want to use the technology on their children . Highly religious Americans tend to see gene editing as crossing a line and `` meddling with nature , '' while those who are less religious are more inclined to say it is no different than other ways humans have tried to better themselves .
The median age among foreign-born Latinos is more than 20 years older than that of U.S.-born Latinos ( 41 and 19 , respectively ) . While the median age of foreign-born Latinos has risen dramatically over the past three decades ( from 31 years in 1980 ) , the median age of U.S.-born Latinos has not changed significantly . Much of this change in the median age among foreign-born Latinos reflects the slowdown in migration from Latin America that has occurred since 2007 . Without a new , large wave of younger immigrants , those Latino immigrants who remain in the U.S. have aged , pushing up the group 's median age .
Yet the public 's future economic outlook has become more negative , according to our survey conducted Dec. 5 - 9 . A quarter ( 25 % ) says the economy will be worse off a year from now , up from just 8 % in September and the highest level since June 2011 . Overall , 37 % expect the economy to be better off next year , down from 43 % in September .
Americans have little confidence that private space companies will minimize space debris . Just 13 % of Americans say they have a great deal of confidence that private space companies will minimize the amount of human-made space debris that they put into Earth 's orbit – including fragments of rockets , satellites and other human-made objects . About half ( 51 % ) of Americans say they have not too much or no confidence at all that private companies will minimize the debris they create .
Another 22 % say they followed news about the heat wave that hit the east and the south very closely ; 4 % say this was the story they followed most closely . News about the heat wave accounted for 4 % of coverage .
Nationwide , 58 % of Cuban registered voters say they affiliate with or lean toward the Republican Party , while 38 % identify with the Democratic Party or lean Democratic , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 . By comparison , around two-thirds of Hispanic voters who are not Cuban ( 65 % ) identify as or lean Democratic , while 32 % affiliate with the Republican Party .
Women account for more than a quarter ( 28 % ) of the 67 judges President Donald Trump has successfully appointed to the federal courts since taking office . That 's well below the share appointed by Barack Obama – whose 324 judicial appointees were a record 42 % female – but higher than the share appointed by any other Republican president , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from the Federal Judicial Center . In both parties , presidents have appointed a growing share of female judges in recent decades . Women represented 22 % of the 324 judges appointed by Republican George W. Bush during his eight years in office , 19 % of the 188 judges appointed by George H.W . Bush and 8 % of the 364 judges appointed by Ronald Reagan . Among recent Democratic presidents , Obama 's total exceeded the share appointed by Bill Clinton ( 28 % of 372 judges ) and Jimmy Carter ( 16 % of 261 judges ) . Trump 's numbers are as of Sept. 30 and will change as the Senate moves to confirm more of his pending judicial nominees and as he identifies new nominees for vacant positions .
On both questions there are differences by political affiliation and ideology . Democrats and those who lean to the Democratic Party are more likely than Republicans and Republican leaners to say that COVID-19 has changed how journalists report the news . They are also more likely than Republicans to believe that the outbreak has done financial harm to most news organizations .
Republicans ' views of Mueller 's investigation , which were generally negative over the probe 's two-year course , are much more positive now that it has been completed . Six-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents now say they are confident in the fairness of the investigation . In January , just 39 % of Republicans said they were confident Mueller was conducting a fair inquiry .
Partisan divisions over gun policy proposals may reflect contrasting views among Republicans and Democrats on gun violence in the country today and on the impact of access to guns on crime and mass shootings . Though clear majorities of both Republicans ( 74 % ) and Democrats ( 92 % ) consider gun violence to be at least a moderately big problem in the U.S. , a much greater share of Democrats ( 65 % ) than Republicans ( 32 % ) say gun violence is a `` very big '' problem in the country .
Among the recent downloaders Nielsen surveyed , game apps were the most downloaded apps overall in terms of both volume and the percent of adults who had downloaded them .2 In terms of actual apps use , six in ten of Nielsen 's recent downloaders ( 60 % ) said they had used a game app in the past 30 days , and roughly half said they had used a news/weather app ( 52 % ) , a map/navigation app ( 51 % ) , or a social networking app ( 47 % ) in that same timeframe . While music apps ranked second on the most downloaded list , they ranked fifth on the most used list .
Among scientists , the public 's knowledge about science — or lack thereof — is widely considered to be a major ( 84 % ) or minor ( 14 % ) problem for the field .
The new data show a 117 % increase in the number of unaccompanied children ages 12 and younger caught at the U.S.-Mexico border this fiscal year compared with last fiscal year . By comparison , the number of apprehensions of unaccompanied teenagers ages 13 - 17 has increased by only 12 % over the same time period .
The largest number of overstayers came from Canada ( about 119,000 , a 1.3 % overstay rate ) , followed by Mexico ( about 47,000 , a 1.5 % overstay rate ) and Brazil ( 39,000 , a 1.8 % overstay rate ) . As a group , countries with visa-waiver programs ( such as the United Kingdom or Spain ) , where the U.S. does not require a visa for temporary visits , had lower overstay rates than Canada , Mexico and countries without visa-waiver programs .
The experiment found that respondents were more likely to say plenty of `` jobs '' were available in their community than they were to say plenty of `` good jobs '' were available ( 60 % vs. 48 % ) . While there are partisan differences in these views ( Republicans had more positive views of job availability ) , both Republicans and Democrats are significantly more likely to say `` jobs '' are available than to say `` good jobs '' are .
Though support for Clinton is widespread among Democratic voters , there is a gender gap in the strength of her support among white Democratic voters . Overall , 62 % of women and 54 % of men say there is a good chance they would vote for Clinton . But these differences are particularly evident among whites : 61 % of white Democratic women say there is a good chance they would vote for Clinton compared with 43 % of white Democratic men . Conversely , more white Democratic men ( 45 % ) than women ( 26 % ) see some chance of voting for Clinton . Only about 10 % in each group sees no chance of voting for her .
Currently , 43 % approve of the way that Barack Obama is handling the economy , while 52 % disapprove . Obama 's job rating on the economy has shown little change this year . Views of Obama 's handling of the economy have been consistently more negative than positive since shortly after he took office in early 2009 .
Amid a bruising primary campaign , Republicans remain unimpressed with their party 's presidential field . In fact , more Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters say the GOP field is only fair or poor ( 52 % ) than did so in early January ( 44 % ) .
Family caregiving responsibilities , particularly motherhood , can lead to interruptions in career paths for women and can have an impact on long-term earnings . In a 2013 survey , women were more likely than men to say they had taken breaks from their careers to care for their family . Roughly four-in-ten mothers said that at some point in their work life they had taken a significant amount of time off ( 39 % ) or reduced their work hours ( 42 % ) to care for a child or other family member . Roughly a quarter ( 27 % ) said they had quit work altogether to take care of these familial responsibilities . Fewer men said the same . For example , just 24 % of fathers said they had taken a significant amount of time off to care for a child or other family member .
Some survey respondents noted that with the internet 's many social positives come problems . They said that both scenarios presented in the survey are likely to be accurate , and noted that tools such as email and social networks can and are being used in harmful ways . Among the negatives noted by both groups of respondents : time spent online robs time from important face-to-face relationships ; the internet fosters mostly shallow relationships ; the act of leveraging the internet to engage in social connection exposes private information ; the internet allows people to silo themselves , limiting their exposure to new ideas ; and the internet is being used to engender intolerance .
Most grads think college was worth it . The same Pew Research report found that majorities of graduates in all three of the largest U.S. generations — Boomers , Gen-Xers and Millennials — agree that college either has paid off or will pay off , given what they and their families invested in it . Perhaps not surprisingly , the highest-earning graduates were the most positive about their educations — 98 % of those making six figures and up said their degree had paid off , compared with 63 % of graduates earning less than $ 50,000 . Similarly , people with advanced degrees were even more likely than bachelor 's and associate 's degree holders to say their education was worth the investment — 96 % , compared with 89 % and 76 % , respectively .
Fully 43 % say they followed news about the election outcome more closely than any other news , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted among 996 adults from Nov. 4 - 7 . News about the elections accounted for 57 % of the newshole , the highest level of coverage for any story since the 2008 elections , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
The weight of debt from college loans has already made a substantial impact on U.S. households . A Pew Research Center analysis of government data that became available last year found that 19 % of the nation 's households owed student debt in 2010 , more than double the share two decades earlier , and a significant rise from the 15 % that owed such debt in 2007 , just prior to the onset of the Great Recession .
Overall views of immigrants : Views about immigration policies are often shaped by views about immigrants themselves : Are immigrants generally a problem , taking jobs and services , or do they strengthen the country through hard work and talents ? In our May survey , about half of Americans ( 51 % ) say immigrants strengthen the country , while 41 % view them as a burden . ( These opinions have fluctuated over the years , but in the mid-1990s , majorities said immigrants to the U.S. were a burden . ) However , Republicans ( 63 % ) are far more likely than Democrats ( 32 % ) to say immigrants are a burden . And the share of Republicans who regard immigrants as a burden jumped 15 percentage points , from 48 % in March 2014 .
Large majorities of teens say that preventing people with mental illnesses from purchasing guns and improving mental health screening and treatment – 86 % each – would be at least somewhat effective at preventing school shootings . Roughly eight-in-ten teens ( 79 % ) say that having metal detectors in schools would be effective and 66 % say the same about banning assault-style weapons . By contrast , a much smaller share of teens ( 39 % ) say that allowing teachers and school officials to carry guns in schools would be very or somewhat effective at preventing school shootings . Teens ' views on proposals to prevent school shootings generally mirror those of the general public , with the strongest support for mental health-related policies and relatively lower support for banning assault-style weapons or allowing school personnel to carry guns . ( The survey did not ask about the effectiveness of having sworn law enforcement officers armed in schools . )
Hispanics are more likely than Asian Americans to say the U.S. immigration system needs to be `` completely rebuilt '' or needs `` major changes '' —62 % of Hispanics say that , compared with 47 % of Asian Americans .
Globally , people are more dissatisfied than satisfied with the way democracy is working . Across 34 surveyed countries , a median of 52 % are dissatisfied with democracy , compared with 44 % who are satisfied . Only 32 % agree that elected officials care what people like them think ; roughly twice as many ( 64 % ) disagree . Public opinion is divided on whether the state is run for the benefit of all people ( 49 % agree , 50 % disagree ) . However , many still trust and value the voting process , as a median of 67 % agree that voting gives people like them some say about how the government is run .
Nearly six-in-ten Americans ( 58 % ) say reports about the economy make them feel angry , higher than the 49 % that said this in November 2008 as the economic crisis worsened . Much larger numbers of independents and Republicans say this than in 2008 ; the percentage of Democrats who feel this way is largely unchanged . Among the public , about four-in-ten say reports about the economy make them feel confused ( 40 % ) or scared ( 39 % ) . A third say the news makes them feel depressed ( 33 % ) . Those numbers are little changed from three years ago . About three-in-ten ( 28 % ) say the reports make them feel optimistic ; 69 % say they do not make them feel that way . Again , those numbers are little changed since 2008 .
Outside of Ukraine , many European publics supported the country 's entry into NATO . Majorities in Poland ( 64 % ) , Lithuania ( 58 % ) , France ( 54 % ) and nearly half in Bulgaria ( 49 % ) , Czech Republic ( 46 % ) , and Spain ( 46 % ) favored Ukraine joining NATO . However , Germans and Italians disagreed — 53 % in Germany and 42 % of Italians opposed Ukraine 's membership in the military alliance .
But while churchgoing Republicans were particularly skeptical of Trump during the primaries , they are firmly in his corner now that the general election campaign is underway . Indeed , in a June 2016 telephone survey , churchgoing GOP voters were as supportive of Trump in the general election as Republicans who attend religious services less than once a week . Nearly nine-in-ten GOP registered voters who attend religious services weekly say they would vote for Trump over Clinton if the election were held today , including 40 % who say they would `` strongly '' support Trump in the general election . Among GOP voters who attend less regularly , 84 % say they would back Trump if the election were today , including 41 % who support him `` strongly . ''
Less than five months before Election Day , voters are not as engaged with the presidential campaign as they were at this point four years ago , when interest in the campaign reached record levels . But voter engagement today generally equals or surpasses levels from the four campaigns prior to 2008 , indicating that 2012 could be another relatively high turnout election . Two-thirds of registered voters say they are giving quite a lot of thought to the election , which is down slightly from 2008 but higher than in any campaign from 1992 through 2004 . Interest in election news , also lower than four years ago , surpasses interest in all other campaigns since 1992 . The percentage of registered voters who say they are more interested in politics than they were four years ago , which hit an all-time high in June 2008 , is down sharply since then . Even so , the 48 % who say they are now more interested in politics is identical to the number saying this in 2004 – and higher than the numbers expressing comparatively greater interest in politics than in 2000 and 1996 .
The public gave doctors high marks on several specific aspects of trust . Around half of Americans or more said medical doctors always or usually care about their patients ' best interests ( 57 % ) , do a good job providing diagnoses and treatment recommendations ( 49 % ) and provide fair and accurate information when making recommendations ( 48 % ) . But notably smaller shares said doctors are transparent about potential conflicts of interest with industry groups ( 15 % ) and admit mistakes and take responsibility all or most of the time ( 12 % ) .
Americans also see local news outlets as more credible sources of COVID-19 information than the news media in general . In a survey conducted June 4 - 10 , half of U.S. adults said their local news media get the facts right about the coronavirus outbreak almost all or most of the time , compared with 44 % who said the same about the news media overall . Similarly , about half of Americans ( 53 % ) said their state and local governments get the facts right about COVID-19 all or most of the time . Black Americans are more likely than other adults to turn to local news organizations and to trust them to get the facts right about COVID-19 . This aligns with two other , broader trends : Black Americans are more closely following COVID-19 news topics , and they are also more likely to be interested in local news and to trust information from local news organizations more generally .
Kenya is on the forefront of a banking revolution ; a majority of Kenyans ( 56 % ) make or receive payments using cell phones . The number of Kenyans engaged in this activity is higher than any of the other 24 countries surveyed in our spring 2013 survey . In fact , only in neighboring Uganda do even a plurality of people say they use their cell phones for mobile banking transactions .
Favorable views of the Supreme Court are back above 50 % , having rebounded from historic lows reached in the summer of 2013 . However , the court still has several major decisions pending that could impact the public 's views , including rulings on challenges to the Affordable Care Act 's requirement that employers include contraceptive coverage in their employees ' health plans . The latest survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted April 23 - 27 among 1,501 adults , finds that 56 % have a favorable view of the court , while 35 % have an unfavorable view . ( The survey was conducted before the court 's ruling that a town council in New York and , by extension , other legislatures , can begin meetings with a Christian prayer . ) Last July , following high-profile rulings on the Voting Rights Act and same-sex marriage , about half held a favorable view of the court ( 48 % ) , among the lowest measures recorded in Pew Research surveys .
College majors matter . Among all grads , science or engineering majors are the most likely to say their current job is very closely related to their field of study and the least likely to say that a different major would have better prepared them for the job they really wanted .
More than half of married couples in the United States say sharing household chores is `` very important '' to a successful marriage . But when it comes to grocery shopping and cooking , women tend to say they 're the ones usually doing the work , according to a time-use survey sponsored by the Bureau of Labor Statistics ( BLS ) . In U.S. households consisting of married or cohabiting parents and one or more children under the age of 18 , 80 % of mothers say they are the household member who usually prepares the meals – the same as the share who say they are the primary grocery shopper , according to a Pew Research Center analysis . Some 71 % of moms say they primarily handle both chores . This compares with about two-in-ten fathers in this type of household who say they are the person who usually prepares the meals ( 19 % ) or grocery shops ( 20 % ) . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they are the one who usually does both tasks . Dads are about twice as likely as moms to say these chores are split equally : 20 % of dads say meal preparation is split equally , compared with 10 % of moms . There is a similar pattern for grocery shopping ( 23 % vs. 11 % ) .
Latinos who are not citizens or legal residents are not much different in how frequently they attend religious services when compared with other Latinos or the general U.S. population . Among foreign-born Latinos who are naturalized citizens or legal permanent residents , 45 % attend religious services on at least a weekly basis . Among U.S.-born Latinos , 37 % attend on at least a weekly basis . And among the general U.S. population , 38 % attend religious services on at least a weekly basis .
Among caregivers of older adults , most provide help to one aging adult , but 22 % provide help to two and 7 % provide help to three or more . Roughly half of these caregivers have been providing help for two years or less . More than a third have been providing care for five or more years .
The current survey finds that positive views of the GOP among Republicans have declined 18 percentage points since January , from 86 % to 68 % . Independents also view the Republican Party less favorably ; 29 % today , compared with 37 % six months ago .
Along with social networking , an equally popular use of the internet is staying in touch with friends and family . A median of 86 % of internet users across the emerging and developing nations surveyed say they have used the internet this way in the past year .
A 2013 Pew Research Center survey of Hispanic adults finds that a majority of Mexican adults ( 61 % ) identify themselves as Catholic . About two-in-ten ( 18 % ) Mexicans are Protestant , and among all Mexicans , 5 % are mainline Protestants and 13 % are evangelical Protestants . Roughly two-in-ten ( 17 % ) Mexicans are religiously unaffiliated . In contrast , among all Hispanics , 55 % identify as Catholic , 22 % identify as Protestant , and about two-in-ten ( 18 % ) are unaffiliated .
Such studies typically find that consumption inequality is less than income inequality , though still significant . A 2012 study from the American Enterprise Institute , using data from the Consumer Expenditure Survey ( CES ) , found that the top 20 % of households by income accounted for nearly 40 % of total expenditures , while the bottom 20 % accounted for less than 10 % of expenditures . As the chart shows , the gap between the top and bottom has remained relatively constant – a finding that echoes those of other consumption-oriented researchers .
A majority of voters ( 55 % ) say that ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence the government in Washington if they are willing to make the effort , while 44 % say there 's not much ordinary citizens can do . The share who say ordinary citizens can do a lot is down slightly compared December 2016 , when 62 % of voters said this . While overall opinion has changed little since 2016 , there has been a sharp decline in the share of Trump voters who say ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence government , from 67 % four years ago to 42 % today .
Relatively few Canadians engage frequently in traditional religious practices , such as daily prayer or weekly worship . We most recently asked Canadians about these behaviors in 2013 , when one-in-five reported attending religious services at least weekly , and 29 % said they pray daily . Around a third ( 36 % ) said they never pray , and about half said they seldom ( 24 % ) or never ( 25 % ) go to church or other worship services . Still , more than half of all Canadians ( 55 % ) in the Center 's 2018 survey said religion remains at least somewhat important in their lives , including about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) who said it is very important to them – higher than the share who said this in the UK , France and most other Western European countries . By all of these measures , young Canadian adults are less religious than their elders .
As views of the economy improve and terrorist threats persist , the public 's policy priorities have changed : For the first time in five years , as many Americans cite defending the U.S. against terrorism ( 76 % ) as a top policy priority as say that about strengthening the nation 's economy ( 75 % ) . The Pew Research Center 's annual policy priorities survey , conducted Jan. 7 - 11 among 1,504 adults , also finds that the goal of strengthening the military has increased in importance . Currently , 52 % say strengthening the military should be a top policy priority for the president and Congress this year , up from 41 % in January 2013 . The survey finds little change over time in many of the public 's other priorities : 67 % rate improving education as a top priority , 66 % cite securing Social Security , 64 % reducing health care costs and 61 % securing Medicare .
The top 20 NPR-affiliated public radio stations ( by listenership ) had on average a total weekly listenership of about 11 million in 2018 , about the same as in 2017 . ( This includes listeners of NPR programming as well as original or other syndicated content aired on these stations . )
The December 2017 survey asked people if they were active in 10 specific types of community groups and organizations : church groups , hobby groups , charitable or volunteer organizations , professional associations , community groups , book clubs , parent groups or youth organizations , social clubs , performing arts groups and veterans ' groups . It also gave respondents the chance to say they are involved in some `` other '' type of group or organization ( beyond the ones listed above ) .
Publics around the world disagree about which is more important to emphasize in school : creative thinking or basic academic skills and discipline . Here are four key findings about educational preferences from a 2016 Pew Research Center survey of 19 countries . Publics in advanced economies prefer creative education more than people in emerging economies do . Among advanced economies , half or more in six of the 14 countries surveyed said it is more important that schools teach students to be creative and think independently than to teach students basic academic skills and encourage discipline . By comparison , in all five of the emerging economies included in the survey , fewer than half said the same . Among advanced economies , Americans are in the middle of the pack : 48 % support education that emphasizes creative and independent thinking and 42 % prefer to prioritize basic academic skills .
Overall , there is no strong consensus about the trajectory of American power over the past decade . When asked whether the U.S. plays a less , more or equally important and powerful role as a world leader today compared with 10 years ago , respondents in most countries are fairly divided . Japan is the only country in which a majority thinks the U.S. is less important and powerful than it was a decade ago , while India is the only nation with a majority saying the U.S. is more important and powerful . For their part , Americans are more likely than most of the other publics surveyed to believe their country 's power is waning : 46 % say the U.S. is playing a less important role in the world . ( For more on U.S. views about foreign policy , see `` Public Uncertain , Divided Over America 's Place in the World . '' ) In the European Union , public opinion has moved substantially on this question since it was first asked in 2008 . Looking across five EU nations polled each year since 2008 – France , Germany , Poland , Spain and the UK – the median percentage naming the U.S. as the world 's top economic power declined rapidly after 2009 , but has rebounded steadily since 2012 . American public opinion has also shifted on this question . As recently as 2014 , 41 % said China was the leading economy , while 40 % chose the U.S. Now , just 34 % think it 's China , while 54 % say the U.S .
For example , native-born Latino youths are about twice as likely as the foreign born to have ties to a gang or to have gotten into a fight or to have carried a weapon in the past year . They are also more likely to be in prison . The picture becomes even more murky when comparisons are made among youths who are first generation ( immigrants themselves ) , second generation ( U.S.-born children of immigrants ) and third and higher generation ( U.S.-born grandchildren or more far-removed descendants of immigrants ) .
Recent news reports from Tanzania , Mexico and China have highlighted corruption as a major issue for people in emerging and developing countries . Our spring 2014 survey confirms that people in these countries think corrupt political leadership is a very big problem and that it is also a growing one . Yet , not many people in these nations say giving bribes is essential for getting ahead in life . However , the importance of bribery looms larger in the Middle East , where 71 % say corruption is a very big problem . A median of 30 % in the region say giving bribes is important for life advancement . This includes 43 % in Jordan and 36 % in Tunisia . And in Asia , a median of 23 % say this , including 38 % in China . Fewer in Africa ( 15 % ) and Latin America ( 10 % ) agree .
There were 11.3 million unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. in March 2013 , according to a preliminary Pew Research Center estimate , about the same as the 11.2 million in 2012 and unchanged since 2009 . The population had risen briskly for decades before plunging during the Great Recession of 2007 to 2009 .
The increase in employment in the first quarter of 2007 is below the trend for the most recent period of robust industry expansion that preceded it as well as for the average of the previous three years ( Figure 7 ) . From the beginning of 2004 through the end of 2006 , the employment of foreign-born Latinos in the construction industry increased by an average of 286,000 persons on an annual basis as measured from one quarter or to the same quarter in the previous year . In 2006 , for example , employment was up by 424,000 in the second quarter , 341,000 in the third quarter and 370,000 in the fourth quarter compared to the same quarters in 2005 . In the first quarter of 2007 the increase was 230,000 compared to the first quarter of 2006 .
The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted Dec. 8 - 13 among 1,500 adults , finds that since the start of this year , the share of Americans who say the government is doing well in reducing the threat of terrorism has fallen by 26 percentage points – from 72 % to 46 % – and now stands at its lowest point in the post-9/11 era . Approval of the way Barack Obama is handling the threat of terrorism also has declined , even as his overall job rating ( currently 46 % ) – and his ratings on immigration , the economy and other issues – is little changed . Just 37 % approve of the way Obama is handling terrorism while 57 % disapprove , the lowest rating of his presidency for this issue .
Scientists and the American public are often far apart when it comes to views about science-related issues . Members of the science community , for example , are much more likely to say genetically modified foods and foods grown with pesticides are safe to eat , and that climate change is mostly due to human activity , according to our recent survey of U.S.-based members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science . A global median of 54 % consider climate change a very serious problem , according to our survey of 40 nations . But there are regional differences on views of climate change , with people from Latin America and Africa expressing more concern than others . Before delegates from 195 nations approved a landmark climate accord in Paris this year to limit carbon emissions , our spring survey found a median of 78 % supporting such a deal .
When asked whether their country should have UN approval before using military force to deal with international threats , American opinion differs considerably from that of Western Europeans . Americans are almost evenly divided on the question , with 45 % saying that the U.S. should have UN approval while 44 % say this would make it too difficult to deal with threats ; in contrast , solid majorities in the four Western European nations surveyed , including about three-quarters in Spain ( 74 % ) and Germany ( 76 % ) say their country should have UN approval before it takes military action .
Nearly two-thirds of Democrats ( 64 % ) say there would be fewer mass shootings in the U.S. if it were harder for people to legally obtain guns ; only about a quarter of Republicans ( 27 % ) say the same . And Republicans are skeptical that making it harder to legally obtain guns would have an effect on mass shootings : 54 % say it would not make a difference , while 18 % think restricting access to guns would lead to more mass shootings .
About half of Americans ( 51 % ) express a favorable opinion of the court , while 37 % have an unfavorable view , up eight points since April and the highest percentage expressing an unfavorable opinion in a trend dating to 1985 . The more negative view of the court is largely being driven by Republicans : Three months ago , Republicans viewed the Supreme Court favorably by a 56 % to 25 % margin . Today , they view the court unfavorably by a 51 % to 38 % margin .
Despite the improving economy , most Americans continue to say that they are falling behind the cost of living . Overall , 55 % said in the Jan. 7 - 11 survey that their family 's income is falling behind the cost of living , while 37 % say it 's staying about even ; only 6 % think their family income is going up faster than the cost of living . Views on this question have shown no improvement over the course of the last year ; in August 2014 , 56 % said they felt they were falling behind the cost of living . Today , about two-thirds ( 65 % ) of those with family incomes of less than $ 30,000 a year say they are falling behind .
Demographic patterns in the new survey , which was conducted in September and October , are similar to those in a 2015 survey by the Center . Most notably , adults with an annual household income of $ 75,000 or more are more than twice as likely as those earning less than $ 30,000 a year to say they do not make any purchases using cash in a typical week ( 41 % vs. 18 % ) . Conversely , lower-income Americans are about four times as likely as higher-income Americans to say they make all or almost all of their purchases using cash ( 29 % vs. 7 % ) .
About half of Americans ( 52 % ) expressed worry about surveillance programs in 2014 and 2015 , but they had more muted concerns about surveillance of their own data . Roughly four-in-ten said they were somewhat or very concerned about government monitoring of their activity on search engines , email messages and cellphones . Roughly three-in-ten expressed the same amount of concern over monitoring of their activity on social media and mobile apps .
An estimated 11.1 million unauthorized immigrants lived in the U.S. in 2014 , according to a new Pew Research Center estimate based on government data . This population has remained essentially stable since 2009 after nearly two decades of changes .
Smaller percentages of possible Democratic primary voters would be more inclined to support a candidate who wants to cut the size of large banks and financial institutions ( 48 % more likely , 16 % less likely ) and expand U.S. trade agreements with other nations ( 45 % , 19 % ) . And while 41 % of possible Democratic voters say they would be more likely to support a candidate who backs the Iran nuclear agreement , 27 % would be less likely to favor a candidate who takes this position .
A narrow majority of Americans ( 54 % ) support the death penalty for people convicted of murder , according to a spring 2018 survey . But only around a third of blacks ( 36 % ) support capital punishment for this crime , compared with nearly six-in-ten whites ( 59 % ) .
A proposal by President Obama to offer free tuition for students attending community college could have a significant impact on Hispanics . More Hispanics are already enrolled in college than ever before and , among those who are , nearly half ( 46 % ) attend a public two-year school , the highest share of any race or ethnicity , according to U.S. Department of Education data .
On a list of possible issues with China , Americans are most concerned about economic issues , cybersecurity and human rights . Specifically , the amount of U.S. debt held by China and the loss of jobs to China are Americans ' top worries , but cyberattacks and Beijing 's human rights record are n't far behind .
There are 102 women serving as voting members of the House of Representatives currently in the 116th Congress , comprising 23.4 % of House members . Of these , 89 are Democrats and 13 are Republicans . In addition , four women serve as nonvoting delegates to Congress , representing American Samoa , the District of Columbia , Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands . Jeannette Rankin ( R-Mont . ) was the first woman to be elected to Congress , taking office in 1917 . Nancy Pelosi ( D-Calif. ) is the only woman to have served as speaker of the House . She was speaker from 2007 to 2011 , served as the House minority leader in the Republican-controlled house from 2011 to 2019 and was elected speaker again in 2019 . Cathy McMorris Rodgers ( R-Wash. ) , chair of the Republican Conference , is the highest ranking Republican woman in the House .
For the first time on record , more non-Mexicans than Mexicans were apprehended at U.S. borders in 2014 by the Border Patrol , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of more than 60 years of Border Patrol data . This shift is another sign that unauthorized immigrants from Mexico are crossing the U.S.-Mexico border significantly less often than they did before the Great Recession . About 229,000 Mexicans were apprehended by the Border Patrol in fiscal year 2014 compared with 257,000 non-Mexicans during the previous year , according to recently published Border Patrol data . Taken together , total apprehensions of Mexican and non-Mexican unauthorized immigrants ( more than 486,000 ) were up 16 % over the previous year . These numbers are dramatically different than in 2007 when Mexican apprehensions totaled 809,000 , compared with just 68,000 non-Mexicans . The number of Mexican immigrants apprehended at the border peaked at 1.6 million in 2000 , the Pew Research analysis showed . The last time Mexican apprehensions were as low as they are now was in 1970 when 219,000 Mexicans were apprehended . In 1970 , non-Mexican apprehensions totaled just 12,000 .
In Indonesia , about nine-in-ten Muslims ( 91 % ) either say that their religion plays a large role in politics and that this is a good thing or that Islam plays a small role and that this is a bad thing . Similarly , at least three-quarters of Muslims in Egypt ( 85 % ) , Nigeria ( 82 % ) and Jordan ( 76 % ) consider Islamic influence over political life to be a positive thing for their country , as do 69 % of Muslims in Pakistan and 58 % in Lebanon . Only in Turkey are opinions about the role of Islam in political life more mixed . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) Turkish Muslims say Islam plays a large role and embrace its influence in their country 's politics or say it is bad that Islam plays only a small role ; about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say Islam 's influence is negative .
Latinos own smartphones , go online from a mobile device and use social networking sites at similar—and sometimes higher—rates than do other groups of Americans , according to a new analysis of three surveys by the Pew Research Center . The analysis also finds that when it comes to using the internet,1 the digital divide between Latinos and whites is smaller than what it had been just a few years ago . Between 2009 and 2012 , the share of Latino adults who say they go online at least occasionally increased 14 percentage points , rising from 64 % to 78 % .2 Among whites , internet use rates also increased , but only by half as much—from 80 % in 2009 to 87 % in 2012 . Over the same period , the gap in cellphone ownership between Latinos and other groups either diminished or disappeared . In 2012 , 86 % of Latinos said they owned a cellphone , up from 76 % in 2009 .
Views of parties ' commitment to fair elections . While 62 % of Americans say the Democratic Party is at least somewhat committed to fair and accurate elections , just 23 % say it is very committed to this objective . A narrower majority ( 56 % ) says the Republican Party is very or somewhat committed to fair and accurate elections , with 20 % saying the GOP is very committed . In part , these views reflect deeply cynical views among members of both parties about the other party . Majorities of both Democrats ( 64 % ) and Republicans ( 56 % ) say the opposing party has little or no commitment to fair and accurate elections in the U.S .
Urban and rural Americans have widely different views on some social and political issues , but differences can shrink when accounting for partisanship . People in urban areas are far more likely than those in rural communities to say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , that the government should do more to solve problems , that the economic system unfairly favors powerful interests and that whites benefit from advantages in society that black people do not have – but these differences shrink when accounting for partisanship . ( A 62 % majority of urban adults are Democrats or lean Democratic , while 54 % in rural areas identify with or lean toward the Republican Party . ) Majorities in urban and rural areas feel misunderstood by those living in different types of communities . About two-thirds or more in rural and urban areas ( 70 % and 65 % , respectively ) say people who do n't live in their same type of community do n't understand the types of problems faced by those who do . The share of suburbanites who say this is lower ( 52 % ) .
In the same 2018 survey , 43 % of U.S. adults said major technology companies support the views of liberals over conservatives , while 11 % said they support the views of conservatives over liberals ; 43 % said tech companies support the views of both liberals and conservatives equally . ( This question was asked in the context of perceptions of tech companies ' political leanings generally , not necessarily in the context of regulating speech on their platforms . ) A majority of Republicans ( 64 % ) said tech companies support the views of liberals over conservatives . Among Democrats , 53 % said tech companies favor the views of both liberals and conservatives equally . Few in either party coalition ( 6 % of Republicans and 16 % of Democrats ) said these companies favor the views of conservatives over liberals .
As the Senate impeachment trial gets underway , slightly more Americans say that Donald Trump should be removed from office than say he should stay in office , with these views starkly divided along partisan lines . Roughly half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) say the outcome of the Senate trial should be Trump 's removal from office , while 46 % say the result should lead to Trump remaining in office . An overwhelming share of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 86 % ) say the trial should result in Trump remaining in office , while roughly the same share of Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 85 % ) think Trump should be removed . While the public 's preferences for the outcome of the Senate trial are closely divided , 63 % of Americans say Trump has definitely ( 38 % ) or probably ( 25 % ) done things that are illegal , either during his time in office or while he was running for president . A larger majority ( 70 % ) say he has definitely ( 45 % ) or probably ( 26 % ) done unethical things , according to the new survey , conducted Jan. 6 - 19 among 12,638 U.S. adults on Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel . As was the case in public views of the House 's impeachment inquiry in the fall , the public does not express much confidence in either party to be `` fair and reasonable '' during the Senate trial . About half of Americans ( 48 % ) are at least somewhat confident that Senate Democrats will be fair and reasonable , while slightly fewer ( 43 % ) say the same about the Senate GOP . Most partisans say they are confident senators of their party will behave fairly and reasonably , while also expecting that those in the other party will not .
Voice assistants are present on a wide range of devices , but the most common way for Americans to use them is on a smartphone : 42 % of U.S. adults use voice assistants in this way . Some 14 % of the public has used a voice assistant on a computer or tablet , while 8 % say they use them on a stand-alone device such as an Amazon Echo or Google Home .
When asked a separate set of questions about whether the use of facial recognition technology is acceptable under certain circumstances , the public again expresses more acceptance of these tools when used by law enforcement agencies than in other situations . A 59 % majority of U.S. adults think it is acceptable for law enforcement agencies to use facial recognition technology to assess potential security threats in public spaces , while just 15 % find this unacceptable . The rest are either unsure if this is acceptable or have not heard of facial recognition technology in the first place . By comparison , larger shares of Americans find it unacceptable than find it acceptable for companies to use these technologies to automatically track the attendance of their employees ( 30 % acceptable , 41 % not acceptable ) , or for advertisers to use these tools to see how people respond to public advertising displays ( 15 % acceptable , 54 % unacceptable ) . The public is largely split on apartment building landlords using this technology to track who is entering or leaving their buildings : 36 % think this is an acceptable use of facial recognition technology , but 34 % think it is not .
Many Canadians also believe the U.S. is in relative economic decline . Indeed , they are about as likely to identify China as the world 's leading economic power ( 37 % ) as they are to name the U.S. ( 35 % ) . And just over half believe China either will replace ( 44 % ) or has already replaced ( 8 % ) the U.S. as the world 's leading superpower .
Pew Research Center polling shows that the podcast user base continues to expand . A May 2013 survey found 27 % of internet users ages 18 and older download or listen to podcasts , up from 21 % three years ago in May 2010 and 7 % of internet users in 2006 .
Americans focused most closely last week on economic news amid continued reports about the weakness of the recovery , while the media gave the most coverage to the scandal involving New York Rep. Anthony Weiner . About a quarter of the public ( 23 % ) says the economy was their top story of the week , according to the latest News Interest Index survey conducted June 9 - 12 among 1,002 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . By comparison , 13 % say they most closely followed news about Weiner 's admission that he sent sexually suggestive photos and messages to several women online . In that regard , most Americans ( 63 % ) say news organizations are giving too much coverage to the scandal involving the Democratic lawmaker . Weiner 's troubles accounted for 17 % of coverage , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the economy made up 11 % of the newshole .
Even as Americans hold mixed views about the importance of such statements , they have become fairly common following the global protests that erupted in response to the killing of Floyd in police custody on Memorial Day . This survey finds that a vast majority of adults ( 80 % ) say they have seen or heard companies and organizations making public statements about race or racial inequality in the past few months , with majorities across racial and ethnic groups and political parties saying this . Majorities across racial and ethnic groups think pressure from others has contributed a great deal to these statements . But white adults who have come across recent statements from firms about race or racial inequality are more likely to express this sentiment – with 73 % saying this compared with about six-in-ten of the same group of Black , Hispanic or Asian adults . On the other hand , Hispanic ( 31 % ) and Black ( 30 % ) Americans are about twice as likely as Asian ( 16 % ) or white Americans ( 14 % ) to believe genuine concerns for Black people motivated companies a great deal to make statements about race or racial inequality .
At a time when most voters say the outcome of the election `` really matters , '' 37 % say they have had an argument about the election ; 62 % say they have not . Major arguments are particularly rare : Just 8 % of all voters say they have had a major argument .
On a follow-up question on why 2017 will be better or worse than 2016 , mentions of Donald Trump dominate among both those optimistic and pessimistic about the year ahead . Overall , 56 % of those who think 2017 will be better say Trump is the reason they feel this way . No other response comes close ( 15 % offer general mentions of optimism , while 11 % express some form of economic optimism ) . Among those who think 2017 will be worse than 2016 , Trump is even more widely cited as the reason for their view . About seven-in-ten ( 72 % ) say Trump is the reason why they expect the year ahead to be worse . Far fewer cite other reasons , such as the political divisions in the country ( 6 % ) or pessimism about the Republican-controlled Congress ( 6 % ) .
Comparing online activities for the typical day for broadband users across each community type makes the point more vividly . There is basically no difference for rural broadband users and those in other parts of the country with respect to the number of online activities they do on the average day .
But when it comes to public opinion in Russia , newly released data from a 2013 Pew Research Center survey suggests a similar reaction is unlikely : nearly three-quarters of the Russian population ( 72 % ) think that homosexuality is morally unacceptable , with only 18 % saying it is acceptable or not a moral issue . In Russia , homosexuality tops the list of unacceptable behaviors even in comparison to other controversial issues , such as abortion and alcohol consumption . In fact , extramarital affairs ( 69 % unacceptable ) and gambling ( 62 % ) are the only other issues tested that are frowned upon by a majority of the Russian people .
Most expect woman president , eventually . Following Clinton 's defeat , a sizable majority of voters ( 79 % ) still expect there will be a female president `` in their lifetime . '' There are no significant differences in these opinions among men and women , or Clinton supporters and Trump backers .
Contrasting Asia-Pacific views of China may in part be explained by differing levels of concern about regional territorial disputes with Beijing . The Filipinos ( 91 % concerned ) , Vietnamese ( 83 % ) and Japanese ( 83 % ) are the most troubled by these territorial frictions , according to a 2015 Pew Research Center survey of Asia-Pacific perceptions of various global threats . And they are also the three countries in the region with the highest unfavorable ratings of China .
Significant shares also assert they face challenges separating the truth from false information when they are listening to elected officials and using social media . Some 64 % say it is hard to tell the difference between what is true and not true when they hear elected officials ; 48 % say the same thing about information they encounter on social media .
And at this point , Republican voters also are more engaged in the campaign than they were at this stage in prior campaigns . Roughly eight-in-ten Republican voters ( 81 % ) say they have given a lot or some thought to the 2016 presidential candidates . That compares with 74 % who gave at least some thought to the candidates in September 2011 and 69 % who did so four years earlier . Among Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters , 71 % say they have given a lot or some thought to the candidates , which is nearly identical to the share who said this eight years ago ( 72 % in September 2007 ) .
But the island 's population decline has accelerated in recent years . Over a two-year period between 2011 and 2013 , Puerto Rico 's net population decreased by 50,000 people annually . Job-related reasons were cited by 42 % of those leaving . The population decline has included young people . Enrollment in Puerto Rico 's elementary schools and high schools has declined 40 % over the past decade , the report said .
Republican voters give the current field of presidential candidates higher ratings than at comparable times in the past two nomination contests . Nearly six-in-ten Republican and Republican-leaning voters ( 59 % ) say they have an excellent or good impression of their party 's hopefuls , according to a September survey . In August 2011 , half ( 49 % ) of Republican voters viewed the GOP presidential field positively ; in October 2007 , it was similar ( 50 % ) .
In Nigeria and Kenya , lower but substantial shares have taken each of these steps to prepare for their move . About 11 % of Kenyans and 14 % of Nigerians who plan to migrate in the next five years have taken all three steps to prepare for their move .
Attitudes toward advertising online are also complicated . Fully 81 % of online news users say they do not mind online advertising because it allows the content to be free . But 77 % say they also ignore the ads ( 42 % online news consumers say they `` never '' click on one of those ads and 35 % say they do so `` hardly ever '' ) .
In the `` stationary media majority '' groups , none has a majority of cell users saying it would be very hard to give up their cell , and all have seen a decline in the twenty months between our tech-user surveys in the share of people saying they would find it very hard to give up the cell phone . The table below summarizes these points .
The new Republican-led Congress is drawing harsh reviews from the public – including most Republicans . Just 23 % of Americans say congressional Republicans are keeping the promises they made during last fall 's campaign , while 65 % say they are not . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say the new Congress has accomplished less than they expected , while 4 % say it has accomplished more than expected . About half ( 53 % ) say its accomplishments are in line with what they expected .
Our Christmas survey also asked what people look forward to the most about Christmas . A majority ( 69 % ) say they look forward to spending time with family and friends . A smaller number say they look forward to the religious elements of the holiday ( 11 % ) . By comparison , 4 % cite giving or exchanging gifts , and 1 % mention shopping .
The origins of U.S. refugees in fiscal 2018 align with the shift in religious affiliation . No Muslim-majority countries are represented among the top five nationalities of refugees admitted so far this fiscal year . By contrast , three of the top five origin countries of refugees in fiscal 2017 had Muslim-majority populations – Iraq , Syria and Somalia .
New Zealand has some of the lowest levels of government restrictions on religion in the world , with a score in 2016 of just 0.48 out of 10 on Pew Research Center 's Government Restrictions Index ( GRI ) . Still , while New Zealand 's GRI score has been low since we first began measuring it in 2007 , it did tick upwards slightly in 2016 . This recent increase is due in part to derogatory statements made by Winston Peters , leader of the New Zealand First Party , when he said in June 2016 that certain countries `` treat their women like cattle , '' and suggested that all immigrants should be screened for unacceptable attitudes before being permitted to enter the country . Some media reports said he specifically referred to Muslim immigrants , which he denied . New Zealand had `` low '' levels of social hostilities involving religion in 2016 ( with a Social Hostilities Index score of 0.9 out of 10 ) . There have been incidents of religiously motivated violence and hostilities in the past , although these cases have been relatively rare . In September 2016 , for example , the Whanganui branch of the Right Wing Resistance , a right wing organization , circulated pamphlets that accused Muslim refugees in the country of intending to change the culture of New Zealand to suit themselves and to `` kill anyone '' who did not believe in God .
As a Pew Research Center analysis noted last year , nearly one in five U.S. households ( 19 % ) owed money on student loans in 2010 , more than double the proportion in 1989 . Among households headed by someone younger than 35 ( i.e. , people more likely to be recent college graduates ) , a record 40 % had student-loan debt outstanding .
White evangelical Protestants who regularly attend church ( that is , once a week or more ) approve of Trump at rates matching or exceeding those of white evangelicals who attend church less often . Indeed , in the first few months of Trump 's presidency , white evangelicals who attended church at least weekly were significantly more likely than less-frequent churchgoers to approve of Trump 's performance ( 79 % vs. 71 % ) . In the most recent period analyzed – from July 2018 to January 2019 – 70 % of white evangelicals who attend church at least once a week approve of Trump , as do 65 % of those who attend religious services less often . Among white Catholics , there have also been differences in presidential approval between those who attend Mass weekly and those who do not . In the early months of Trump 's presidency , weekly Mass-attending Catholics were 12 points more likely than less-regular attendees to approve of Trump 's performance . There was an 11-point gap between these groups in the first half of 2018 . In the most recent period analyzed , 52 % of white Catholics who attend Mass weekly approve of Trump , as do 45 % of those who attend services less often . Among white mainline Protestants , approval of the president is not meaningfully different between weekly attenders and those who attend less often .
Currently , Democrats are divided in their views of the effects of the national news media . Nearly half of Democrats and Democratic leaners say the news media has a negative impact on the country ( 46 % ) while about as many ( 44 % ) view its impact positively .
In U.S. congressional races nationwide , an estimated 69 % of Latinos voted for the Democratic candidate and 29 % backed the Republican candidate , a more than two-to-one advantage for Democrats , according to National Election Pool exit poll data . These results largely reflect the party affiliation of Latinos . In a Pew Research Center pre-election survey , 62 % of Latinos said they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party compared with 27 % who affiliated with the Republican Party . Among other racial and ethnic groups , a lower share of whites ( 44 % ) voted for Democrats in congressional races compared with blacks ( 90 % ) and Asians ( 77 % ) . ( Exit polls offer the first look at who voted in an election , a portrait that will be refined over time as more data , such as state voter files , become available . ) Latinos made up a notable share of eligible voters in several states with competitive races for U.S. Senate and governor , including Texas ( 30 % ) , Arizona ( 23 % ) , Florida ( 20 % ) and Nevada ( 19 % ) . In these states , Democrats won the Latino vote , sometimes by a wide margin . In the Texas Senate race , 64 % of Latinos voted for Democrat Beto O'Rourke while 35 % voted for Republican incumbent Ted Cruz . In the state 's race for governor , about half of Hispanics ( 53 % ) voted for Democrat Lupe Valdez and 42 % backed the Republican , Greg Abbott . In Florida , Republican candidates often win a larger share of the Hispanic vote than elsewhere , in part due to a large population of Cubans that has tended to vote more Republican than other Hispanic groups . In the Senate race , 54 % of Hispanics voted for Democrat Bill Nelson and 45 % backed Republican Rick Scott . Latinos voted similarly in the race for governor , with 54 % of Hispanics voting for Democrat Andrew Gillum and 44 % voting for Republican Ron DeSantis . Meanwhile , Latinos voted for Democratic candidates by wide margins in Nevada . About 67 % of Latinos voted for Democrat Jacky Rosen in the Senate race , compared with 30 % who voted for Republican Dean Heller . In the race for governor , Latinos voted in a similar manner .
More Americans get news online… 50 % of the public now cites the internet as a main source for national and international news , still below television , but far above newspapers and radio .
Whites , blacks and Hispanics all have experienced substantial increases in fatal drug overdose deaths in recent years , but there has been an especially large rise among blacks . The overdose death rate for black Americans rose 40 % between 2015 and 2016 , from 12.2 deaths per 100,000 people to 17.1 per 100,000 . Among black men in urban counties , specifically , the fatality rate rose 50 % – from 22.6 deaths per 100,000 people in 2015 to 34.0 per 100,000 a year later . Despite the sharp year-over-year increase among blacks , whites continue to have a substantially higher overall drug overdose death rate ( 25.3 per 100,000 ) than both blacks ( 17.1 per 100,000 ) and Hispanics ( 9.5 per 100,000 ) .
Mobile gaming devices are owned predominantly by younger teens ( those ages 12 - 14 ) . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of 12 - 14 year olds own a portable gaming device , compared with 44 % of teens ages 15 to 17 . The most notable drop occurs at age 14 , typically a time of transition between middle and high school for many teens .
White teens are more likely to work in the summer , as well as during the rest of the year , than teens of other racial and ethnic backgrounds . Last year , for example , the summer employment rate for 16- to 19-year-old whites was 37.5 % , versus 28.9 % for Hispanics , 25.8 % for blacks and 20.1 % for Asians . Almost 1.4 million more teens were employed in July 2018 than in April , a rough gauge of summer jobholding ; nearly 1.1 million of those additional teen workers , or 78 % , were white .
Globally , babies born to Muslim mothers will outnumber babies born to Christian mothers by 2035 – largely driven by different fertility rates . The number of babies born to Christian mothers ( 223 million ) far outnumbered the number of births to Muslim mothers ( 213 million ) between 2010 and 2015 . However , an aging Christian population – especially in Europe and North America – and high fertility rates among Muslim women is rapidly changing the global religious landscape . The number of births to Muslim women is projected to exceed births to Christian women by 2030 - 2035 , with the disparity growing to 6 million by 2055 - 2060 .
The degree to which Americans report experiencing effects of climate change in their local community varies by geographic region . Americans in Pacific states ( which include California , Washington , Oregon , Hawaii and Alaska ) are most likely to see at least some local impacts of climate change ( 72 % ) . By comparison , 54 % of those living in Mountain states ( Arizona , Colorado , Nevada , Utah , New Mexico , Idaho , Montana and Wyoming ) say climate change is affecting their local area at least some .
Americans ' tendency to talk about the coronavirus outbreak also differs depending on how closely they are following news about it – and where they get that news . Around six-in-ten adults who follow COVID-19 news very closely ( 58 % ) say they talk about the outbreak with other people most or almost all of the time . That compares with around a third of those who follow COVID-19 news fairly closely ( 36 % ) and around a fifth who follow coronavirus news not much or not at all ( 19 % ) . Among those who follow coronavirus news not much or not at all , 30 % say they hardly ever or never talk about the virus with other people .
At a time when Latinos are interacting more than ever with police , courts and prisons , their confidence in the U.S. criminal justice system is closer to the low levels expressed by blacks than to the high levels expressed by whites , according to a pair of nationwide surveys by the Pew Research Center . Six-in-ten ( 61 % ) Hispanics say they have a great deal or a fair amount of confidence that the police in their local communities will do a good job enforcing the law , compared with 78 % of whites and 55 % of blacks . Just under half ( 46 % ) of Hispanics say they have confidence that police officers will not use excessive force on suspects , compared with 73 % of whites and 38 % of blacks . Similarly , just under half of Hispanics say they are confident that police officers will treat Hispanics fairly ( 45 % ) and that courts will treat Hispanics fairly ( 49 % ) . In comparison , 74 % of whites and 37 % of blacks say they have confidence that the police will treat blacks and whites equally ( Pew Social & Demographic Trends , 2007 ) .
Health care remains a top issue for voters ; 74 % say the issue will be very important to their vote this fall . Health care ranks in the top tier of issues included in a Pew Research Center April survey , just below the economy ( 86 % ) and jobs ( 84 % ) and matching the budget deficit ( 74 % ) .
Where do atheists find meaning in life ? Like a majority of Americans , most atheists mentioned `` family '' as a source of meaning when Pew Research Center asked an open-ended question about this in a 2017 survey . But atheists were far more likely than Christians to describe hobbies as meaningful or satisfying ( 26 % vs. 10 % ) . Atheists also were more likely than Americans overall to describe finances and money , creative pursuits , travel , and leisure activities as meaningful . Not surprisingly , very few U.S. atheists ( 4 % ) said they found life 's meaning in spirituality .
Germans in both areas say living standards in the former East have not yet caught up with those in the former West . Around three-quarters of people in the former East Germany ( 74 % ) and around two-thirds of those in the former West ( 66 % ) say the East still has not achieved the same living standards as the West , according to the Center 's recent survey , which was conducted among representative samples of adults in both areas as part of a larger study of Europe .
In addition to recording the biggest increase in government harassment and use of force against religious groups , Europe also had the second-largest overall share of countries ( 89 % ) that exhibited these types of actions . Only the Middle East-North Africa region ( 95 % ) had more governments that harassed or used force against religious groups . Sub-Saharan Africa , the Americas and the Asia-Pacific region had lower shares of government harassment or use of force against religious groups , although over seven-in-ten countries in each region had these types of government restrictions . In total , 32 European governments ( 71 % ) specifically harassed Muslims during 2015 , up from 27 governments ( 60 % ) the year before . The Middle East-North Africa region was the only region to have a larger share of countries that harassed Muslims ( 75 % ) .
Schools at all levels of competitiveness have seen increases in application volume , though not in any regular pattern . At all but the most competitive schools – those that admitted fewer than 10 % of applicants in 2017 – the number of admissions also has risen . But only among the schools with the highest admission rates – 70 % or above – have admissions risen by enough to keep pace with the surge in applications .
The survey – most of which took place after Bernie Sanders announced April 8 that he was suspending his presidential campaign , but before he endorsed Biden on April 13 – finds that early preferences for the general election are closely divided : 47 % of registered voters say if the presidential election were held today , they would vote for Biden or lean toward supporting Biden , while 45 % support or lean toward Trump ; 8 % favor neither Biden nor Trump or prefer another candidate . With Biden now the party 's presumptive nominee , Democrats generally think that the party will unite around the former vice president . About six-in-ten Democratic and Democratic-leaning registered voters ( 63 % ) say the party will unite around Biden as the nominee , while 36 % say differences and disagreements will keep many Democrats from supporting Biden . Notably , Democrats who supported Sanders for the party 's nomination in January are the most skeptical that the party will unite around Biden . Nearly half of Democratic voters who supported Sanders for the nomination ( 47 % ) say that differences will keep many in the party from backing Biden .
There also are striking educational differences in partisans ' views of global warming . Among Republicans , higher education is linked to greater skepticism about global warming — fully 43 % of Republicans with a college degree say that there is no evidence of global warming , compared with 24 % of Republicans with less education . But among Democrats , the pattern is the reverse . Fully 75 % of Democrats with college degrees say that there is solid evidence of global warming and that it is caused by human activities . This is far higher than among Democrats with less education among whom 52 % say the same . Independents , regardless of education levels , fall in between these partisan extremes .
Around the world , few people trust Russian President Vladimir Putin to do the right thing when it comes to international affairs . A global median of roughly one-in-four ( 26 % ) say they have confidence in the Russian leader . Doubts about Putin 's handling of foreign policy , however , do not necessarily coincide with perceptions of Russia as a security risk . Across 37 countries , a median of 31 % describe Russia 's power and influence as a major threat to their country – identical to the median percentage who say the same about China , and similar to the median share ( 35 % ) that sees America 's power and influence as a large threat .
For the second week in a row , news about the fighting between Israel and Hamas is near the top of the public 's news interest list . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they were very closely following reports about the fighting in Gaza . Nearly as many ( 28 % ) say they very closely followed news about Central American children crossing the U.S.-Mexico border ; a week ago , 33 % followed this story very closely . And in the wake of new U.S. and European Union sanctions against Russia , 24 % say they followed news about the situation involving Russia and Ukraine . News about the U.S. economy attracted a similar level of attention ( 27 % following very closely ) .
But Muslim views of Hezbollah reflect a deep sectarian divide in Lebanon , where the group 's leader , Hassan Nasrallah , is threatening violence if a United Nations tribunal indicts Hezbollah members for the 2005 assassination of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri . More than nine-in-ten ( 94 % ) Lebanese Shia support the organization , while an overwhelming majority ( 84 % ) of Sunnis in that country express unfavorable views .
Despite their relatively secular worldview , Lebanese Muslims are among the most supportive of terrorist acts in the name of Islam . In 2005 , 39 % said suicide bombing and other forms of violence against civilians are often or sometimes justified in order to defend Islam from its enemies . Only Jordan , at 57 % , registered more support for suicide attacks . In Morocco , Turkey , and Indonesia , fewer than one-in-five Muslims believe such attacks can often or sometimes be justified .
Asked to assess their students ' performance on nine specific writing skills , AP and NWP tended to rate their students `` good '' or `` fair '' as opposed to `` excellent '' or `` very good . '' Students were given the best ratings on their ability to `` effectively organize and structure writing assignments '' with 24 % of teachers describing their students as `` excellent '' or `` very good '' in this area . Students received similar ratings on their ability to `` understand and consider multiple viewpoints on a particular topic or issue . '' But ratings were less positive for synthesizing material into a cohesive piece of work , using appropriate tone and style , and constructing a strong argument . These AP and NWP teachers gave students the lowest ratings when it comes to `` navigating issues of fair use and copyright in composition '' and `` reading and digesting long or complicated texts . '' On both measures , more than two-thirds of these teachers rated students `` fair '' or `` poor . '' In addition to giving students low ratings on their understanding of fair use and copyright , a majority of AP and NWP teachers also say students are not performing well when it comes to `` appropriately citing and/or referencing content '' in their work . This is fairly common concern among the teachers in the study , who note how easy it is for students today to copy and paste others ' work into their own and how difficult it often is to determine the actual source of much of the content they find online . Reflecting how critical these teachers view these skills :
More House Republicans in the new , 114th Congress identify as Catholic than in any other recent Congress , and they now outnumber Catholic Democrats in the House , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis . Although the difference is slight – there are now 69 Catholic Republicans and 68 Catholic Democrats in the House of Representatives – the new balance is a departure from the previous three Congresses ( 2009 - 2014 ) . Indeed , just six years ago , there were more than two and a half times as many Catholic Democrats ( 98 ) as Catholic Republicans ( 37 ) in the House .
Around six-in-ten or more in every age group are critical of China 's performance . But older Americans – who tend to have less favorable attitudes toward China – give it the lowest marks ; 69 % of those ages 65 and older say the country has done a fair or poor job , compared with 59 % of those under 30 .
Overall , 48 % in Lebanon have a favorable view of Saudi Arabia versus 41 % who like Iran . However , as is usually the case in Lebanon , opinion is divided among three main religious groups in the country : Christians , Sunni Muslims and Shia Muslims . An overwhelming number of Sunni Lebanese have a favorable view of Saudi Arabia ( 82 % ) , while Iran 's favorability among Sunnis sits at 5 % . An even greater divide exists among the Lebanese Shia population , with 95 % saying they like Iran , while only 3 % say the same about Saudi Arabia . Christians in Lebanon tend to have more favorable views of Saudi Arabia ( 54 % ) than Iran ( 29 % ) .
The public 's wariness toward global engagement extends to U.S. participation in the global economy . Nearly half of Americans ( 49 % ) say U.S. involvement in the global economy is a bad thing because it lowers wages and costs jobs ; fewer ( 44 % ) see this as a good thing because it provides the U.S. with new markets and opportunities for growth . Trump 's primary campaign supporters stand out for their negative assessments of U.S. involvement in the global economy . Fully 65 % of Republican registered voters who prefer Trump for the Republican presidential nomination say U.S. involvement in the global economy is a bad thing , compared with only about half of those who prefer Cruz ( 49 % ) or Kasich ( 46 % ) .
A Pew Research Center spring 2015 survey found that Pakistanis were extremely critical of these terrorist organizations and supported government action to fight extremists . And they were also much more confident in the ability of the Pakistani government , led by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif , to tackle extremist groups than they were in 2014 . Overall , Pakistanis had a very negative view of the Taliban and the TTP . ( The Lahore bombings were carried out by a TTP splinter group , Jamaat-ul-Ahrar , and the TTP were also perpetrators of a horrendous massacre in a public army school in Peshawar in late 2014 . ) In the survey last April , 72 % had an unfavorable view of the Taliban umbrella group , while six-in-ten had negative opinions of TTP specifically . About half ( 53 % ) of Pakistanis viewed the Afghan Taliban negatively and 47 % voiced dislike for al Qaeda . Most Pakistanis do not have an opinion of Lashkar-e-Taiba , the group that carried out attacks in Mumbai in 2008 and operates in the disputed Kashmir and Jammu area , nor ISIS , but among those who do , sentiments towards these extremist groups are negative . Across all the extremist organizations tested , no more than 15 % of Pakistanis showed support for them , with more people in each case not offering an opinion .
Few people globally express confidence in Putin . In 22 of the 33 countries surveyed , more express no confidence in Putin than express confidence . A median of 60 % across these countries say they have no confidence in Putin to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs .
Americans overwhelmingly see drug addiction as a problem in their local community , regardless of whether they live in an urban , suburban or rural area , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The public 's concerns come amid steep increases in the number and rate of fatal drug overdoses across all three community types in recent years . Nine-in-ten Americans who live in a rural area say drug addiction is either a major or minor problem in their community , as do 87 % in urban and 86 % in suburban areas , according to the survey of 6,251 adults , conducted Feb. 26-March 11 . Substantial shares in each community type say addiction is a major problem , though people in urban and rural areas are more likely to say this than those in a suburban setting ( 50 % and 46 % , respectively , compared with 35 % ) .
A new national survey finds that Trump supporters overwhelmingly believe that life in America is worse than it was 50 years ago `` for people like them . '' Fully 81 % of registered voters who support Trump say life has gotten worse , compared with just 11 % who say it has gotten better ( 6 % say it is about the same ) . Most Clinton supporters take the opposite view : 59 % say life for people like them has gotten better over the past half-century , while 19 % think it has gotten worse and 18 % see little change . The candidates ' supporters have contrasting expectations for the nation 's future . Trump backers are broadly pessimistic – 68 % say life for the next generation will be worse than today . Clinton supporters have mixed assessments . Nearly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say life will be better , 28 % say it will be about the same and just 30 % say it will be worse . The latest national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted August 9 - 16 among 2,010 adults , including 1,567 registered voters , finds little change overall in voters ' views of how the nation has changed and its future prospects since March , during the presidential primaries . But the divisions evident in that survey are striking in the context of the general election .
As the United States formally re-establishes diplomatic ties with Cuba , a new Pew Research Center survey shows that people in Latin American nations approve of this action and support the U.S. ending its long-standing trade embargo against the island nation . And many Latin Americans surveyed say they expect that Cuba will become more democratic over the next several years . However , overall views of Cuba across the six countries are mixed , and there is little confidence in Cuban President Raul Castro 's ability to handle international affairs . Across the Latin American countries surveyed , there is robust approval for the U.S. re-establishing diplomatic relations with Cuba . Overall , a median of 77 % across five Latin American countries share this view .
Americans ' attitudes toward offensive content online also tend to differ by political affiliation . The survey asked respondents to choose which statement came closer to their view : `` Many people take offensive content they see online too seriously '' or `` offensive content online is too often excused as not a big deal . '' By a 63 % -36 % margin , Republicans say people take offensive online content too seriously . By contrast , Democrats are more divided : 50 % say offensive content is often taken too seriously , while 48 % feel it is too often excused as not a big deal .
The UK has the fifth-largest immigrant population in the world , at 8.5 million . Between 1990 and 2015 , the UK 's immigrant population more than doubled , from 3.7 million . As of 2015 , about 13 % of the UK 's resident population was foreign-born , comparable to the roughly 14 % foreign-born share in the United States . As of 2015 , the UK 's immigrant population has one of the most diverse groups of origin countries in the world , tying Denmark for the highest diversity score , which measures the distribution of immigrants from different source countries . The top three origin countries of immigrants living in the UK are India ( 780,000 ) , Poland ( 700,000 ) and Pakistan ( 540,000 ) .
Trump gets somewhat higher marks among people who express positive views of right-wing populist European political parties . For example , in France , among those with a favorable opinion of Marine Le Pen 's National Rally ( formerly National Front ) , 43 % have confidence in Trump , compared with only 13 % among people with an unfavorable view of National Rally .
A substantial majority of Americans ( 81 % ) believe that within the next 50 years people needing an organ transplant will have new organs custom made for them in a lab . Belief that this development will occur is especially high among men ( 86 % of whom believe this will happen ) , those under age 50 ( 86 % ) , those who have attended college ( 85 % ) , and those with relatively high household incomes . But although expectations for this development are especially high within these groups , three-quarters or more of every major demographic group feels that custom organs are likely to become a reality in the next half-century . The public is more evenly split on whether computers will soon match humans when it comes to creating music , novels , paintings , or other important works of art : 51 % think that this will happen in the next 50 years , while 45 % think that it will not . In contrast to their expectations for custom-built organs , college graduates and those with high incomes are comparatively unlikely to expect that computers will advance to this level of development . Some 59 % of college graduates and 57 % of Americans earning $ 75,000 or more per year feel that computers will not be able to produce works of art that are on par with those produced by humans within the next 50 years . Compared with custom organs and computer produced art , the public has less confidence that the two common science fiction tropes of teleportation and colonization of other planets will come to pass . Two in five Americans ( 39 % ) think that teleportation will be possible within the next 50 years , while slightly fewer—33 % —expect to live in a world in which humans have long-term colonies on other planets . Young adults are especially likely to view space colonization as a long-term eventuality : 43 % of 18 - 29 year olds see this happening in the next half-century , compared with about a quarter of those over age 50 . On the other hand , high-income Americans are pessimistic about the prospects of space colonization : just 20 % of those with an annual household income of $ 75,000 or more think this is a realistic prediction . From a list of futuristic inventions that includes space colonies and teleportation , Americans actually have the least confidence in the prediction that humans of the future will be able to control the weather : just 19 % of the public thinks that this will probably happen . Older adults are especially pessimistic about this development , as just 11 % of Americans ages 65 and older think that controlling the weather is likely to happen over the next 50 years . But even among the most `` optimistic '' demographic groups , the expectation that humans will control the weather in the next half-century is a decidedly minority viewpoint .
The general public is closely divided in its views about the role of religious organizations in scientific policy debates . Overall , half of adults say churches should express their views on policy decisions about scientific issues , while 46 % say churches should keep out of such matters . White evangelical Protestants and black Protestants are more inclined than people in other major religious groups to say churches should express their views on such topics . A majority of those with no religious affiliation say churches should keep out of science policy debates .
Use of government services and information online is most common among Americans with high incomes and education levels While many Americans interact with government using online channels , this engagement is not evenly distributed across the online population—particularly when it comes to income and education . High-income and well-educated internet users are much more likely than those with lower levels of income and education to interact with government using many of the online channels we evaluated in our survey .
The U.S. no longer leads the world in admitting refugees . Canada resettled more refugees than the U.S. did in 2018 , marking the first time the U.S. did not lead the world on this measure since Congress created the nation 's refugee program in 1980 . While Canada resettled 28,000 refugees in 2018 – similar to its total in 2017 – the U.S. resettled 23,000 , down from 33,000 the year before and far below a recent high of 97,000 in 2016 . The U.S. had previously admitted more refugees each year than all other countries combined .
The 2003 Values Survey series reveals a similar disparity on racially charged questions . For example , on the issue of affirmative action programs , 55 % of blacks , but only 24 % of whites , offered support—although that cleavage has narrowed substantially from a 50-point differential in 1988 .
People with positive views of populist parties in Europe tend to have a much less favorable attitude toward the European Union . The starkest difference appears in Germany , where those who support the right-wing Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) party are 34 percentage points less likely to express a favorable view of the EU than people who do not support AfD .
Overall , half of Americans say that society does not place enough importance on working and having a job ; 19 % say that society places too much importance on work , while the remaining 31 % think that balance is just about right . However , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are about twice as likely as Democrats and Democratic leaners to say that society does n't place enough importance on working ( 69 % vs. 35 % ) . There is also a substantial age gap in how Americans view work . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) of U.S. adults ages 65 and older – and 55 % of those ages 50 to 64 – think that society does not place enough importance on working . That share falls to just 36 % among those 18 to 29 .
The GOP 's efforts to repeal the health care law are registering widely with the public – 49 % say they have heard a lot about these efforts . Fewer ( 39 % ) say they heard a lot about John Boehner becoming the new House speaker . Only about three-in-ten say they heard a lot about Republican proposals for billions of dollars in spending cuts ( 31 % ) and members of Congress reading the Constitution on the House floor ( 28 % ) . Even fewer heard a lot about GOP plans to investigate government operations under the Obama administration ( 20 % ) , the Democrats ' proposed changes in the Senate 's filibuster rules ( 14 % ) and members of the House reducing office and staff budgets by 5 % ( 14 % ) .
Black Democrats ' negative evaluations of Trump 's job performance extend to views on how his economic policies are affecting the country . Nearly six-in-ten black Democrats ( 57 % ) say that Trump 's economic policies have made economic conditions in the country worse . Smaller shares of white ( 47 % ) and Hispanic ( 43 % ) Democrats say the same .
Lawmakers , advocates and social media companies have been looking into ways to curtail online harassment in the wake of high-profile cases concerning cyberbullying and online threats . A January 2017 survey found that online harassment is a fairly common feature of online life : 41 % of Americans said they have experienced some form of it , and among those ages 18 to 29 , the share was 67 % .
Across 25 countries surveyed in 2018 , at least a plurality of respondents in nine nations have favorable views of both the U.S. and China . For example , around half of adults in Kenya , the Philippines and Nigeria give positive marks to China and to the U.S . These nine countries include traditional American allies like Israel and the United Kingdom , as well as some of China 's neighbors in the Asia-Pacific region , including Indonesia and Australia .
Beyond perpetrating potentially inappropriate or harmful behavior , teen daters also can be the recipients of –possibly more serious – controlling or potentially abusive experiences at the hands of significant others . These questions ask about nine experiences and whether they occur during a relationship and/or after a relationship ends . And like the practices our survey respondents told us they engaged in above , these behaviors and experiences are in some cases dependent on context of the interaction .
In the wake of the Tucson shootings , there is no significant change in public views on the issue of gun control and gun rights . Currently , 49 % of Americans say it is more important to protect the right of Americans to own guns , while 46 % say it is more important to control gun ownership . In September 2010 , 50 % prioritized gun control , 46 % gun rights . In this regard , there is no sign that the longer trend toward an emphasis on gun owners ' rights has abated .
VSS estimates that , by 2016 , the share of these fees as a percentage of overall station revenue will have doubled compared to 2011 . Another financial information firm , SNL Kagan has an even more bullish projection , estimating that by 2018 , retransmission revenue will account for more than 20 % of TV stations ' ad revenues .
Africa has the youngest population of any region , with a median age of 20 – roughly a decade less than the global figure . All but one of the 20 countries with the lowest median ages are in Africa . ( The exception is Afghanistan . ) Four-in-ten Africans are below the age of 15 and just 6 % are 60 or older . Niger , in Western Africa , has the world 's youngest population . Half of Niger 's population is 14 or younger , and the median age is 15 . Niger is one of the world 's poorest countries and ranks last on the UN Human Development Index . The fertility rate in Niger is the world 's highest , and life expectancy is among the world 's lowest . Like its neighbors Mali and Burkina Faso , Niger is burdened by escalating military conflicts .
18 '' Bots '' on Twitter may be behind more link sharing than human beings . An estimated two-thirds of tweeted links to popular news and media websites ( 66 % ) are posted by automated accounts , while around a third ( 34 % ) are posted by human accounts , based on a sample of tweets from 2017 . A relatively small number of highly active bots appear to be responsible for many of those links .
Liberal Biden supporters are especially likely to prioritize climate change in their 2020 vote . Nearly eight-in-ten Biden supporters who describe their political views as liberal ( 79 % ) say climate change is a very important election issue , compared with a somewhat smaller majority of moderate and conservative Biden voters ( 60 % ) . Climate change ranks higher on the minds of White and Hispanic than Black Biden voters . About half of Black Biden supporters ( 54 % ) consider climate change to be very important to their vote ; larger shares of Hispanic ( 75 % ) and White ( 71 % ) Biden supporters say the same .
By a 52 % to 37 % margin , more voters say they have an unfavorable than favorable view of Mitt Romney . The poll , conducted prior to Romney 's recent overseas trip , represents the sixth consecutive survey over the past nine months in which his image has been in negative territory . While Romney 's personal favorability improved substantially between March and June – as Republican voters rallied behind him after the primary season ended– his image has again slipped over the past month .
Many of the newest internet tools for getting campaign information , including social networking , are being used by a relatively limited audience . One-in-five Americans ( 20 % ) say they regularly or sometimes get campaign information from Facebook and just one-in-twenty ( 5 % ) say the same about Twitter . Even among Facebook and Twitter users , most say they hardly ever or never learn about the campaign or candidates through those sources . When respondents are asked to name the specific internet sources they turn to for campaign news and information , the most frequently cited are CNN ( by 24 % of those who get campaign news online ) , Yahoo ( 22 % ) , Google ( 13 % ) , Fox News ( 10 % ) , MSN ( 9 % ) and MSNBC ( 8 % ) . Politically-oriented sites like Huffington Post and the Drudge Report are each mentioned by only 2 % of those who get campaign news online .
Younger adult Americans consume more digital video and digital news video than older ones . Nearly half of adults ages 18 to 29 watch online news video . That substantially outpaces that of older Americans . And it stands in contrast with surveys showing that when it comes to television news viewing habits , 18 - 29 year-olds tend to watch less than any other age group . More highly educated and wealthier Americans are more likely to watch digital news video . Slightly more than half of Americans with a bachelor or graduate degree from college ( 52 % ) watch news video online . This is moderately higher than the video news viewing of those who completed some college ( 43 % ) and more than double the rate of those with a high school degree or less ( 22 % ) . In addition , Americans who earn more than $ 75,000 a year in household income are more likely watch news videos online .
Most of the recent refugees to Europe are arriving from majority-Muslim nations , such as Syria and Iraq . Among Europeans , perceptions of refugees are influenced in part by negative attitudes toward Muslims already living in Europe . In Hungary , Italy , Poland and Greece , more than six-in-ten say they have an unfavorable opinion of the Muslims in their country – an opinion shared by at least one-in-four in each nation polled . For some Europeans , negative attitudes toward Muslims are tied to a belief that Muslims do not wish to participate in the broader society . In every country polled , the dominant view is that Muslims want to be distinct from the rest of society rather than adopt the nation 's customs and way of life . Six-in-ten or more hold this view in Greece , Hungary , Spain , Italy and Germany . Notably , the percentage saying that Muslims want to remain distinct has actually declined since 2005 in four out of five countries where trend data are available . The biggest drop has been in Germany , where the share of the public expressing this view has declined from 88 % to 61 % .
According to the 2002 National Survey of Latinos , 46 % of Hispanic adults speak both English and Spanish ( see Figure 1 ) , meaning that they report an ability to carry on a conversation in either English or Spanish at least `` pretty well . '' About 40 % are largely Spanish speakers , and 14 % are largely English speakers . Given that there were approximately 25 million Hispanic adults in the spring of 2002 ( U.S. Census Bureau 2003 ) , this suggests that there are roughly 11 million adult English/Spanish speaking bilingual Latinos . The remainder of the adult Hispanic population either possesses strong English or Spanish speaking skills , but not both . The 2002 National Survey of Latinos provides an estimate of the prevalence of bilingualism among Hispanic adults only . Census data suggest that English/ Spanish bilingualism is more prevalent among Hispanic children than Hispanic adults . In 2000 , reportedly , 59 % of Hispanic children spoke Spanish at home , and spoke English either `` well '' or `` very well , '' in comparison to 53 % of Hispanic adults . Thus , among the entire Hispanic population , children and adults , 46 % is probably a lowerbound estimate of the prevalence of bilingualism in terms of speaking abilities .
As is the case in Iowa , likely Democratic primary voters in New Hampshire rate Clinton highest in terms of her ability to improve the U.S. health care system — 52 % see her as the strongest candidate on this issue . Immigration is Clinton 's weakest issue ; just 20 % rate her as the best candidate to deal with this issue , another 20 % prefer Richardson , and 16 % Barack Obama .
Public interest in economic news soared last week amid continued stock market volatility and concerns about a possible recession . More than four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely and 20 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . That marks the highest level of public interest in economic news in five years . Interest was only somewhat greater during the recession of the early 1990s . When asked what one economic or financial problem they have been hearing the most about in the news recently , a plurality of Americans point to problems with the housing market . More than three-in-ten ( 31 % ) mention the sub-prime mortgage crisis , the increasing number of home foreclosures or falling home values . This is more than twice the percentage citing any other economic problem , and more than five times the number who cited the stock market during a week when the market lost more than 500 points .
From 2009 to 2010 , the number of Hispanic young adults enrolled in college grew by 349,000 , compared with an increase of 88,000 young blacks and 43,000 young Asian-Americans and a decrease of 320,000 young whites .
Overall , voters under age 30 are less likely than older voters to say they were contacted by campaigns via printed mail , email or by phone . However , the age differences are more modest in the shares saying they received a text message from a campaign or a visit at home from a campaign representative .
Americans generally agree that immigrants – whether undocumented or living legally in the country – mostly do not work in jobs that U.S. citizens want , with a majority saying so across racial and ethnic groups and among both political parties . This is particularly true when it comes to undocumented immigrants . About three-quarters of adults ( 77 % ) say undocumented immigrants mostly fill jobs U.S. citizens do not want , while 21 % say undocumented immigrants fill jobs U.S. citizens would like to have , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 29 to May 5 . Hispanics ( 88 % ) are most likely to say undocumented immigrants mostly fill jobs U.S. citizens do not want , with more Hispanic immigrants than U.S.-born Hispanics saying so ( 94 % vs. 82 % ) . By comparison , similar shares of white ( 75 % ) and black ( 71 % ) adults say the same .
In 2016 , 30.1 % of university presidents were women , triple the share in 1986 . Frances Elizabeth Willard became the first female college president in 1871 , heading the Evanston College for Ladies in Illinois , which later merged with Northwestern University . In 1975 , Lorene L. Rogers was the first woman to lead a major research university ( University of Texas ) , and Judith Rodin in 1994 became the first permanent female president of an Ivy League institution ( University of Pennsylvania ) .
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization ( NATO ) is seen more favorably than not across 10 member states and Sweden . A median of 60 % across these 10 countries have a favorable view of the political and military alliance , compared with a median of 30 % who have an unfavorable opinion . This is in keeping with previous Pew Research Center surveys , which found that NATO was seen in a favorable light across most member countries . Half or more people across all 10 NATO countries surveyed have a positive view of the organization , ranging from a high of 79 % in Denmark to 50 % in France . Among Americans , 57 % have a favorable view of NATO , with only 25 % expressing an unfavorable opinion ( 17 % did not give a response ) . In five countries , about a third or more hold unfavorable opinions of NATO . The Spanish have the most unfavorable views among those surveyed : 43 % have a negative opinion of the organization .
Germans and Americans agree foreign relations will change once the coronavirus crisis is over , but they differ somewhat over how things will change . Around four-in-ten Germans ( 42 % ) say countries will cooperate more with each other after the crisis , while a smaller share ( 31 % ) say countries will increase their focus on national interests . Americans are more divided on this question : 35 % say countries will cooperate more , while 29 % say nations will focus more on their own interests . In both countries , only around a third or fewer say everything will be the same as before the coronavirus crisis .
In a survey conducted Aug. 29 - 31 , 29 % say their opinion of Obama has become more favorable in recent days , while 19 % say their opinion of the Illinois senator has become less favorable ; 50 % say their opinion of Obama has not changed . This marks the first time since the question was first asked in March that significantly more people said their opinion of Obama had become more favorable , rather than less favorable , in the days before the survey . The public also reacted favorably to John McCain this past week . As with Obama , significantly more people say their opinion of McCain has become more favorable , rather than less favorable , in recent days ( 28 % vs. 22 % ) ; 47 % say their opinion of the Arizona senator has not changed .
The EU has never been as popular in the UK as it has been among other EU members . Just 44 % of the public in the UK has a favorable view of the EU , compared with a median of 50 % who hold a favorable opinion in five other EU nations surveyed by Pew Research Center . Support for the EU is down in the UK from a high of 52 % in 2014 . British views of the EU have consistently been lower than those on the continent for nearly a decade .
Americans continue to be divided on whether to keep troops in Iraq or bring them home . A slim plurality of Americans ( 49 % ) now supports bringing the troops home as soon as possible , while 47 % favor maintaining troops in Iraq until the situation there is stabilized . A year ago , a narrow majority ( 52 % ) favored a troop withdrawal as soon as possible , compared with 43 % who favored keeping the troops in Iraq . Public support for a troop pullout peaked at 56 % in June 2007 . The percentage favoring withdrawing the troops as soon as possible is at its lowest level since mid-January 2007 ( 48 % ) .
Migrants fleeing active conflict zones had the best chance of winning asylum , according to decision data from the first half of 2015 . Among the largest refugee groups by nationality , nearly all ( 94.8 % ) of those claiming Syrian citizenship succeeded in obtaining asylum , followed by Eritreans ( 88.5 % ) and Iraqis ( 87.1 % ) . On the other hand , the large numbers of applicants from the Balkans , which has been mostly at peace since 2001 , had less success : Only 6.4 % of Albanians , 1.9 % of Kosovars and 1.3 % of Serbs gained EU asylum in the first half of this year .
After spending the first part of this decade loosening their historic ties to the Democratic Party , Hispanic voters have reversed course in the past year , a new nationwide survey of Latinos by the Pew Hispanic Center has found . Some 57 % of Hispanic registered voters now call themselves Democrats or say they lean to the Democratic Party , while just 23 % align with the Republican Party – meaning there is now a 34 percentage point gap in partisan affiliation among registered Latinos . In July , 2006 , the same gap was just 21 percentage points – whereas back in 1999 , it had been 33 percentage points .
Overall , 61 % of Americans say there is too much economic inequality in the country today , but views differ by political party and household income level . Among Republicans and those who lean toward the GOP , 41 % say there is too much inequality in the U.S. , compared with 78 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners , a Pew Research Center survey conducted in September 2019 found .
But a narrow majority ( 56 % ) agree that in certain areas of the city it is more useful for an officer to be aggressive than to be courteous . And a substantial share of officers ( 44 % ) agree that some people can only be brought to reason the hard , physical way .
The questions explored in this analysis , part of a survey conducted Feb. 4 to 15 , did not mention President Donald Trump or any other president by name . However , other questions in the survey asked about Trump specifically , including whether respondents consider him to be morally upstanding , honest or religious . Data from those sections of the survey show that Republicans are more likely than Democrats to say that `` morally upstanding '' and `` honest '' describe Trump at least fairly well . Republicans are also more likely to view Trump as at least somewhat religious . ( For the full set of findings , read the report . )
The survey shows that most Americans are comfortable with their abilities to cope with information flows in their day-to-day lives . Moreover , those who own more devices are also the ones who feel more on top of the data and media flows in their lives . Those who are more likely to feel information overload have less technology and are poorer , less well-educated and older . The Pew Research Center survey in April 2016 of 1,520 Americans age 18 and older measures how they cope with information demands in their lives and how they feel about the volume of information they encounter . Generally , Americans appreciate lots of information and access to it .
Black Americans tend to be underrepresented in U.S. newsrooms . While 7 % of newsroom employees are black , 11 % of U.S. workers overall are black , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of 2013 - 2017 American Community Survey data . There is slightly more proportional representation in local TV newsrooms , with the Radio Television Digital News Association finding in 2018 that 12 % of those workers are African American . However , only 6 % of news directors – who constitute the leadership of such newsrooms – are black , up from 2 % in 1995 .
Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed news about this year 's congressional elections very closely , while 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the elections , including several hotly contested primaries , proved to be the most covered news of the week , accounting for 15 % of coverage . Just 8 % say they very closely followed news about the floods in Pakistan ; 1 % say this was the story they followed most closely . The flooding accounted for 1 % of coverage . And 7 % say they very closely followed news about the Alaska plane crash that killed former Sen. Ted Stevens ; 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The crash accounted for 5 % of coverage .
Polygamy is most often found in sub-Saharan Africa , where 11 % of the population lives in arrangements that include more than one spouse . Polygamy is widespread in a cluster of countries in West and Central Africa , including Burkina Faso , ( 36 % ) , Mali ( 34 % ) and Nigeria ( 28 % ) . In these countries , polygamy is legal , at least to some extent . Muslims in Africa are more likely than Christians to live in this type of arrangement ( 25 % vs. 3 % ) , but in some countries , the practice also is widespread among adherents of folk religions and people who do not identify with a religion . For example , in Burkina Faso , 45 % of people who practice folk religions , 40 % of Muslims and 24 % of Christians live in polygamous households . Chad is the only country in this analysis where Christians ( 21 % ) are more likely than Muslims ( 10 % ) to live in this type of arrangement . Religion often plays a role in how polygamy is governed and practiced within a single country . In Nigeria , for example , polygamous marriage is not allowed at the federal level , but the prohibition only applies to civil marriages . Twelve northern , Muslim-majority states do recognize these unions as Islamic or customary marriages . In India , Muslim men are allowed to marry multiple women , while men of other groups are not . However , in countries where polygamy is common , it often is practiced by people of all faiths . That 's the case in Gambia , Niger , Mali , Chad and Burkina Faso , where at least one-in-ten people in every religious group measured live in households that include husbands with more than one spouse .
Tunisians are markedly unhappy with the political organizations at the center of the country 's struggle toward democracy over the last three years . Of all the organizations included in the survey , the one that fares the best is the Tunisian General Labor Union ( UGTT ) , a powerful group credited with brokering a deal to help jumpstart the stagnated post-revolutionary transition last fall . More than half ( 53 % ) express a favorable opinion of the long-standing organization , while 37 % rate it negatively . All other political organizations garner less than a third of favorable responses . Ennahda , the moderate Islamist party that took heat for being unwilling to share power after winning Tunisia 's first free election , receives slightly more support than others , with positive ratings from 31 % of Tunisians . While Ennahda accrues the greatest amount of negativity ( 64 % ) , it also has the greatest recognition of all the political parties tested . The organization 's favorability has declined precipitously over the last two years , falling 34 percentage points since 2012 when 65 % of Tunisians held a favorable opinion of the group . Ettakatol , also called the Democratic Forum for Labor and Liberties , and the Congress Party for the Republic garner similar scores . Only about a quarter of Tunisians ( 26 % ) rate these groups favorably , while a majority express unfavorable opinions of them . Both secular , center-left parties have seen similar declines in their favorability of roughly 20 percentage points since 2012 ( 22 points for the Congress Party and 18 points for Ettakatol ) .
As the accompanying charts show , since the formal end of the recession , the stock market ( as measured by the benchmark Standard & Poor 's 500 index ) has recovered much more strongly than housing . As of Tuesday 's market close , the S & P 500 was up more than 74 % ( excluding dividends ) since the beginning of 2009 ; although home values , as measured by the S & P/Case-Shiller index , were up 9.3 % between February 2012 and February 2013 ( the most recent data available ) , the index stands almost exactly where it did four years ago . ( See this post for more discussion of the Case-Shiller index and how it 's calculated . )
A number of possible conclusions could be drawn from these findings . Older students may be using formal communication methods more because they are looking beyond college and working on establishing a more professional online network and image . Younger students may be spending more time on newer technologies because they have , for all intents and purposes , grown up with them , and see these newer methods of communication as both quicker and easier ways of interacting . When Facebook launched in 2004 , for example , current college seniors were just finishing up their high school years . Current college freshmen , however , had just begun high school ; at this age , text-based gossip and IMing are a virtual institution . Consider , for example , Verizon 's recent series of commercials centering on young teens and their text messaging habits .
On the television side , NewsHour derives its revenue from a variety of sources , including PBS , the Corporation for Public Broadcasting ( CPB ) and a mix of `` nonpublic '' streams such as corporations , individual giving and foundations . While the details about public sources of revenue were unavailable for this analysis , NewsHour did provide information about its breakdown of nonpublic funding . In 2018 , contributions from individuals comprised 13 % of total nonpublic funding . ( Information on whether the total amount of this funding rose or fell was also unavailable . )
Online news that comes via emails and texts from friends or family is the type of news encounter most likely to result in a follow-up action . Among the five pathways studied , news instances spurred by emails and texts from friends or family elicited the most activity ; nearly three-quarters ( 73 % ) of these instances were acted upon in some way . That outpaced social media and direct visits to a news organization 's website , where a follow-up action occurred in about half of news instances ( 53 % and 47 % , respectively ) . Overall , talking with someone offline , whether in person or over the phone , was the most common action taken with digital news .
The fortunes of the middle classes in Western Europe 's largest economies are moving in opposite directions . From 1991 to 2010 , the shares of adults living in middle-income households increased in France , the Netherlands and the United Kingdom , but shrank in Germany , Italy and Spain .
Who are the Millennials ? One of our best-known studies was our 2010 report on the Millennials that described a generation of young adults who were confident , digitally connected and open to social change . We revisited Millennials this year , and found they are relatively unattached to organized politics and some core social institutions , like marriage and religion . Despite low levels of social trust and heavy debt burdens , they are optimistic about the future .
On this issue , Americans vary in their perceptions that people often pretend to be someone else to try to steal information in this way . About half of women say this , compared with a smaller share of men . Roughly six-in-ten Black adults ( 63 % ) say the same , compared with 56 % of Hispanic adults , 45 % of White adults and 35 % of Asian adults . And those with relatively low incomes are more likely to think people do this often ( 57 % say so ) compared with smaller shares of those with higher incomes .
The recent shifts in public opinion on the importance of deficit reduction come in the context of the bad economic news that is saturating Americans at the moment . The News Interest Index conducted Sept. 1 - 4 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press found that 61 % of those surveyed said they were hearing `` mostly bad '' news about the economy .
Many conservative Republicans have a negative view of scientists ' understanding of climate change . Majorities of conservative Republicans say climate scientists have little or no understanding of the causes of climate change or ways to address it . In comparison , majorities of the other political groups , including moderate and liberal Republicans , say climate scientists understand the causes of climate change and ways to address it very or fairly well . Climate scientists are not the only ones in whom conservative Republicans have low trust on the issue . Majorities of conservative Republicans say they have `` not too much '' trust in elected officials , energy industry leaders and the news media – or trust them `` not at all '' – to provide full and accurate information about the causes of climate change .
There are generational differences on other science topics as well , including on childhood vaccines . Thirty-seven percent of adults under the age 50 say parents should be able to decide not to vaccinate their children , compared with 22 % of those ages 50 and older . And when it comes to the idea of changing a baby 's genetic characteristics in order to reduce the risk of serious diseases , 56 % of those ages 65 and older say this would be taking medical advances too far , compared with just 42 % of those ages 18 - 29 .
In Turkey , 79 % of Muslims who observe the five daily prayers ( salah ) that are required under Islam say life is better for people like them compared with 50 years ago . In contrast , only about half ( 49 % ) of Turkish Muslims who pray seldom or never at all see the same progress . These divergent views may in part reflect differences in opinion about President Recep Erdogan and his religiously conservative AKP party . In Nigeria – home to both Muslims and Christians , but now governed by an elected Muslim leader – Muslims are much more enthusiastic about their country 's progress . Nearly three times as many Nigerian Muslims as Christians ( 62 % vs. 22 % ) say life is better today compared with 50 years ago . In Israel , 50 years after the Jewish State was victorious in the Six-Day War against a coalition of Arab nations , Israeli Jews are far more convinced than Israeli Arabs that life today is better for people like them . Nearly six-in-ten Jews in Israel say life has improved , compared with only a third of Israeli Arabs who see similar progress .
Closer to home , a special follow-up poll found America 's favorable rating tumbling in Mexico in response to Arizona 's enactment of a law aimed at dealing with illegal immigration by giving police increased powers to stop and detain people who are suspected of being in the country illegally . Only 44 % of Mexicans gave the U.S. a favorable rating following the signing of the bill , compared with 62 % who did so before the bill passed .
There are also some patterns by age . Even though young adults tend to follow the news less closely than older adults , they are just as likely to both see and follow up on news alerts on their phones : 54 % of 18- to 29-year-old smartphone owners get news alerts , as do 56 % of those ages 30 - 49 and 50 - 64 and 49 % of those ages 65 and older ( they also often get news alerts at roughly similar rates ) . And just under half of all age groups tend to click through for more information .
A 56 % -majority of Mexicans say they have a positive opinion of the U.S. , while just 34 % rate their northern neighbor unfavorably . America 's image has improved since the passage in 2010 of the highly publicized Arizona immigration law , but has yet to return to levels seen before the law 's enactment . In 2010 , the Arizona law had a measurable impact on opinion of the United States : prior to the law 's passage 62 % of those interviewed expressed a favorable view of the U.S. , compared with just 44 % of those interviewed after the measure was enacted .
Views of the president 's handling of the Iraq situation , and foreign policy more generally , drive his overall job approval ratings , and Bush 's recent slide in the polls reflects growing public doubts about Iraq . Consistently , the president 's overall job approval ratings are more closely tied to evaluations of his handling of foreign policy and Iraq than any other issues , including the economy , the response to Hurricane Katrina , or terrorism policy . Put another way , nearly everyone who approves of the president 's performance in Iraq approves of his overall job performance , while nearly everyone who disapproves of how he 's handled Iraq disapproves overall as well . While this is the case with many evaluations of Bush 's job performance , the linkage is tightest when it comes to foreign policy and Iraq . In this regard , Bush 's current standing in the polls , while affected by the public 's gloomy economic outlook and concerns about energy prices , immigration and the government 's response to Katrina , is anchored most directly to the situation in Iraq . It will be very difficult for the president to revive his job approval ratings without achieving clear progress in Iraq in the public 's eye .
Over the past 20 years , highly educated women have experienced particularly dramatic increases in motherhood . In 2014 , 80 % of women ages 40 to 44 with a Ph.D. or professional degree had given birth , compared with 65 % in 1994 . The shares of women who were mothers also rose among those with bachelor 's or master 's degrees during this period , while rates of motherhood remained steady for women with less than a bachelor 's degree , at 88 % .
Prior to the election , both measures of opinion about the state of the nation had hit record lows : In October , only 7 % said they were satisfied with the way things were going , while just 12 % said the country was headed in the right direction .2 Since then , both assessments of the state of the nation have shown improvement , but the increase has been far greater in the percentage saying the country is headed in the right direction . By early March , 41 % of Americans said the country is headed in the right direction compared with just 20 % who said they are satisfied with the way things are going in the nation . In the last 19 years , the only prior instances when the `` right direction '' measure significantly surpassed the `` satisfaction '' measure were in February 1991 , near the end of the first Iraq war ( by 11 points ) , in January 1993 , around the time of Bill Clinton 's first inauguration ( by 18 points ) and in the aftermath of the September 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks ( by 11 points ) .
The public makes sharp distinctions about which groups have benefited – and which have not – from the economic policies the government has put in place since the start of the recession . Majorities say that large banks , large corporations and the wealthy have been helped a great deal or a fair amount by government policies . By contrast , 72 % say that , in general , the government 's policies since the recession have done little or nothing to help middle class people , and nearly as many say they have provided little or no help for small businesses ( 68 % ) and the poor ( 65 % ) .
Since the Pew Research Center began consistently measuring internet penetration , educational attainment has been one of the strongest indicators of use . While a large majority of the well-educated has consistently been online , those without a college degree saw greater rates of adoption over the past 15 years and have notably lowered the access gap . Adults with a college or graduate degree are the most likely to use the internet , with almost all of these adults ( 95 % ) saying they are internet users . This proportion has always been high – fifteen years ago , 78 % of adults with at least a college degree used the internet . But the situation in 2000 was much different for those with less education : in that year , only 19 % of those without a high school diploma reported that they were internet users . For those who have not completed high school , 66 % now use the internet , still below where college graduates were in 2000 .
Taken together , the country 's financial crisis , and the auto industry 's troubles in particular , amounted to the largest topic of media coverage for the week of Nov. 17 - 23 . The transition plans for the new Obama administration followed , and together they accounted for more than half of the media 's attention last week .
Roughly six-in-ten self-described urban residents ( 62 % ) say their local news media mainly cover the area they live in , while a majority of those who describe themselves as rural residents ( 57 % ) say the opposite is true – their local news media mostly cover some other area , a concern raised by many journalism watchers following newsroom cutbacks and media consolidation . Self-described suburbanites are more evenly split , according to the survey conducted Oct. 15-Nov. 8 , 2018 , among nearly 35,000 U.S. adults .
More fathers than mothers in families with two full-time working parents say they and their partner share responsibilities about equally when it comes to managing the children 's schedules and activities , caring for sick kids and handling household chores , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Mothers in these families see it differently : Many say they are doing more when it comes to these tasks . For example , in families with two full-time working parents overall , 59 % of parents overall say they and their partners share household chores about equally , while 31 % say the mother does more and 9 % say the father does . Moms , however , are twice as likely as dads to say they handle more of these tasks . For their part , most dads see a more even division of household chores : 64 % say they and their partner share this about equally . While it 's hard to say whose account is the most accurate when it comes to how parenting and household responsibilities are shared , an analysis of the American Time Use Survey ( ATUS ) data provides a glimpse into how full-time working moms and dads spend their time . This analysis shows that while full-time working moms spend more time than full-time working dads on parenting and household tasks , the difference is modest . For example , mothers who work full time spend an average of 11.9 hours per week , or 1.7 hours per day , on housework , compared with 1.2 hours per day among fathers who work full time .
Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) said the Supreme Court has the right amount of power . Similar shares of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 66 % ) and Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 64 % ) said the court has the right amount of power , according to a national Pew Research Center survey conducted July 27-Aug. 2 among 11,001 adults . A smaller majority ( 56 % ) viewed the Supreme Court as middle of the road rather than liberal or conservative . Republicans ( 66 % ) were more likely than Democrats ( 47 % ) to say the court is middle of the road . Nearly half of Democrats ( 47 % ) – including 58 % of liberal Democrats – saw the court as conservative , compared with just 12 % of Republicans . Partisans ' views of the Supreme Court 's ideology have changed since 2016 . The share of Republicans who view the court as middle of the road has increased while the share who say it is liberal has fallen . Over the same period , Democrats have become more likely to say the court is conservative . Since 2016 , President Donald Trump has appointed two justices to the court .
Even though the Senate first allowed cloture to be sought on nominations in 1949 , it was n't until the 1968 nomination of Abe Fortas to be chief justice of the Supreme Court that it was actually attempted . The cloture vote failed , and Fortas was not confirmed . Over the next two decades , cloture was sought only 10 times on nominations and was actually invoked eight times , primarily for judicial positions , according to a Congressional Research Service report . But since 1992 , according to Pew Research Center tabulations of Senate data , 232 individual nominees have been subject to at least one cloture vote .
About two-thirds of internet users use social networking sites ( SNS ) and all the major metrics for profile management are up , compared to 2009 : 63 % of them have deleted people from their `` friends '' lists , up from 56 % in 2009 ; 44 % have deleted comments made by others on their profile ; and 37 % have removed their names from photos that were tagged to identify them .
However , there is as much ideological uniformity on the left as the right . The share of Democrats holding consistently liberal views has grown steadily over the past 20 years , quadrupling from 5 % in 1994 to 23 % today . Social issues like homosexuality and immigration that once drove deep divides within the Democratic Party are now areas of relative consensus . And Democrats have become more uniformly critical of business and more supportive of government .
The gap between television and online news consumption is narrowing . As of August 2017 , 43 % of Americans report often getting news online , a share just 7 percentage points lower than the 50 % who often get news on television . The gap between the two news platforms was 19 points in early 2016 , more than twice as large . The share of Americans who often get news from TV – whether from local TV news , nightly network TV news or cable news – has fallen , while the portion of Americans often getting news online – either from news websites/apps or social media – has grown .
About half of Americans ( 54 % ) say the budget deficit is a very serious problem for the country right now ; 35 % say it is a somewhat serious problem , while 10 % say it is a not too or not at all serious problem right now . While this is similar to public opinion on this question in CBS News/New York Times surveys conducted in 2003 , 2004 and 2005 , far greater shares of Americans said the budget deficit was a serious problem for the country in 2010 and 2011 . For example , in June 2011 , 75 % said the deficit was a very serious problem . Concern about the deficit is lower than it was in 2010 and 2011 across the political spectrum . The share of Republicans , Democrats and independents saying the budget deficit is a very serious problem is down roughly 20 percentage points among each group from surveys conducted in those years .
European publics are sharply divided along partisan lines on many of these issues . Supporters of Euroskeptic parties – especially in France , Italy , Poland , Spain and the UK – are much less likely than adherents to other major parties to have a favorable view of the European Union . The institution 's strongest backers are the Poles ( 72 % ) and the Hungarians ( 61 % ) . In many other nations , support is tepid . Just 27 % of the Greeks , 38 % of the French and 47 % of the Spanish have a favorable opinion of the EU . Notably , 44 % of the British view the EU favorably , including 53 % of the Scottish .
Right after their re-elections , President Obama and George W. Bush both suffered through the first year of their second terms . Heading into this year 's midterm elections , Obama 's job approval rate may be nothing to brag about , but it is better than Bush 's was at this point in 2006 and Obama appears to be less of a drag on his party 's midterm prospects than Bush was . Obama 's job approval rating stands at 44 % while Bush 's was 35 % at the same point in the 2006 midterm year , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted April 23 - 27 . But Obama can look with some envy at where his Democratic predecessor — Bill Clinton — stood in his sixth year . Clinton 's approval rating was a solid 62 % .
More than eight-in-ten registered voters ( 84 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident that people who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot , while nearly as many ( 79 % ) express confidence that in-person polling places will be run safely and without spreading the coronavirus . About two-thirds ( 66 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident that after all votes are counted , it will be clear who won the election , while 62 % are at least somewhat confident that people who are not legally qualified to vote will be prevented from casting ballots . While most voters express at least some confidence in these four aspects of the presidential election , relatively small shares are very confident of each . For example , only about four-in-ten say they are very confident that people who are legally qualified and want to vote will be able to cast a ballot in the election , while only 22 % say they are very confident that once the votes are counted it will be clear who won the election . Voters are less confident that the nation will know the outcome of the election within a few days of Nov. 3 or that mail-in ballots will be delivered in time to be counted , with about half saying they are at least somewhat confident these will happen ( 50 % and 52 % , respectively ) . Just 13 % of voters say they are very confident mail ballots will be delivered on time , while a similarly slim share ( 15 % ) say they are very confident the winner will be known within a day or two of Election Day . Though majorities of Trump and Biden voters say they are at least somewhat confident that people who are legally qualified and want to vote are able to cast a ballot , Trump voters are more likely than Biden voters to say this ( 93 % vs. 77 % , respectively ) . And while only about a third of Biden supporters ( 32 % ) are very confident that people who want to vote will be able to , half of Trump voters have a high level of confidence this will occur .
Trump 's positive ratings for dealing with the coronavirus have fallen since the early weeks of the outbreak in March . Currently , 37 % say he is doing an excellent or good job in responding to the coronavirus outbreak , while 63 % say he is doing only a fair or poor job .
Remarriage is on the rise . In 2013 , 23 % of married people had been married before , compared with just 13 % in 1960 . Four-in-ten new marriages in 2013 included a spouse who had said `` I do '' ( at least ) once before , and in 20 % of new marriages both spouses had been married at least once before .
When he takes office next week , President-elect Donald Trump will inherit an array of global threats in the view of the public . About eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) say ISIS poses a major threat to the well-being of the United States , and 71 % say the same about cyberattacks from other countries .
The Philippines is one of 16 official major non-NATO allies of the U.S . The two countries have maintained a strong military relationship for decades , but Duterte has made it a point to court the favor of China , sometimes at the cost of distancing his country from the U.S. Duterte 's balancing act between the two powers has received mostly positive reviews : 63 % of Filipinos approve of his handling of relations with the U.S. and 53 % approve of how he 's handled relations with China .
Hispanics who do not hold U.S. citizenship and do not hold a green card – a group likely to be in the country without authorization – are more likely than the U.S. born and other immigrants to express concern .1 Among likely unauthorized immigrants , 55 % say they have serious concerns about their place in the country after Trump 's election . Meanwhile , 38 % of U.S.-born Hispanics and 34 % of Hispanic immigrants who are U.S. citizens say they have serious concerns about their place in America . And among Hispanic immigrants who are lawful permanent residents , 49 % say the same .
Digital advertising revenue continues to grow , but little of it benefits news organizations . Total digital advertising revenue has jumped 25 % in 2017 across all types of digital outlets , not just news , according to eMarketer . This has been especially true of mobile advertising revenue , which totaled $ 61 billion in 2017 , roughly equal to the total amount of digital advertising revenue just two years prior , in 2015 ( $ 60 billion ) – and which goes hand in hand with Americans ' increased use of mobile for news . However , news organizations seem to share little in this bonanza – 52 % of all digital display advertising revenue goes to just two companies : Facebook and Google .
6636 % of the nation 's young adults ages 18 to 31—the so-called Millennial generation— now live in their parents ' home , the highest share in at least four decades .
Overall , about half of U.S. adults ( 52 % ) say they would increase federal spending for scientific research , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in March , up 15 percentage points since 2013 . Just 14 % say scientific research funding should be decreased , while roughly three-in-ten ( 31 % ) think it should stay the same . But Democrats are more likely than Republicans to support increased spending for scientific research . Around six-in-ten Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents ( 62 % ) favor this now , up from 46 % in 2013 . Four-in-ten Republicans and Republican leaners support increased spending for scientific research today , up from 25 % six years ago .
Overall , a majority ( 56 % ) say they are satisfied with the results of the election , compared with a third ( 33 % ) who are dissatisfied . One-in-ten do not have an opinion either way .
This pattern is not uniformly the case , however . People in France and the UK stand out for being much less optimistic than their counterparts in nations with similar youth unemployment rates . French and British adults , in fact , are about as pessimistic about the financial future of the next generation as people in Italy , Spain and Greece – even though France and the UK have youth unemployment rates that are roughly 10 to 20 percentage points lower .
About six-in-ten Republicans and those who lean toward the Republican Party ( 62 % ) say abortion should be illegal in all or most cases . By contrast , 82 % of Democrats and those who lean toward the Democratic Party say abortion should be legal in all or most cases .
A median of 66 % across 25 countries say the Chinese government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people , compared with 19 % who think it does . Those who are more likely to say that China does not respect the personal freedoms of its people also tend to have more unfavorable views of China ( e.g . France , Sweden ) . Conversely , people who are less disapproving of China 's human rights record show lower unfavorable opinions of China overall ( Nigeria , Kenya , Tunisia ) . European nations surveyed tend to be particularly critical – a median of 82 % across the 10 EU countries surveyed say China does not respect personal freedoms . Among countries at the more negative end of the scale , Japan is the outlier , showing higher levels of general dissatisfaction with China that may relate to historical and political strains in bilateral relations .
In fiscal 2019 , a total of 30,000 refugees were resettled in the U.S . The largest origin group of refugees was the Democratic Republic of the Congo , followed by Burma ( Myanmar ) , Ukraine , Eritrea and Afghanistan . Among all refugees admitted in fiscal year 2019 , 4,900 are Muslims ( 16 % ) and 23,800 are Christians ( 79 % ) . Texas , Washington , New York and California resettled more than a quarter of all refugees admitted in fiscal 2018 .
This anger plays a large role in the high level of enthusiasm among Democratic voters . Fully 71 % of Democratic voters who describe themselves as `` angry '' at government say they are more enthusiastic about voting this year , compared with 45 % of those who are `` frustrated '' or `` basically content '' with government . Similarly , Democrats who register strong disapproval of the president are far more likely to be eager to vote than those with less strong views ( 58 % vs. 29 % enthusiastic ) . And 56 % of Democrats who say their congressional vote is a vote against the president express high enthusiasm about 2006 , compared with just 44 % who say Bush is not a factor in their vote .
On some sets of issues , such as views of the social safety net , there already were sizable partisan gaps in Pew Research 's first political values study in 1987 . But these differences have widened considerably . On others , such as measures of religiosity and social conservatism , there were only modest differences initially , but these divides also have grown .
Despite these issues , a share of those who do not use phones in some of these emerging economies would like to do so . That is not universally the case , however . A median of 47 % of non-users say they would like to have a mobile phone . That sentiment among non-users ranges from 86 % of non-users in Venezuela to 9 % in Lebanon .
In a survey conducted in April , after the Boston bombings , 75 % of Americans agreed with the statement `` occasional acts of terrorism in the U.S. will be part of life in the future . '' While majorities consistently have held that view over the past decade , the post-Boston number was a significant increase from 64 % who held this view in 2012 , and matched the previous high of 74 % in 2003 .
There is increasing public concern that the war is not going well , which undoubtedly underlies public reservations over troop commitments . By late August , amid reports of the Taliban 's resurgence and increasing U.S. troop fatalities , Gallup found that by a 38 % -to-61 % margin the public judged the war to be going badly ; as recently as July that margin had been reversed with 54 % saying well and 43 % saying badly . A September CBS News/New York Times poll found a similar 35 % -53 % positive-negative split on the war 's progress .
Sacré bleu ! France makes the list of top 10 fans of the U.S. and Germany makes the list of the top 10 critics . Anti-Americanism is particularly strong today in the Middle East . In Egypt only 10 % of the public favor the United States , which long backed the regime of Hosni Mubarak and failed to oppose the military overthrow of the Muslim Brotherhood government that succeeded him . Support is not much higher in Jordan ( 12 % ) and Turkey ( 19 % ) , both countries that are notionally Washington 's allies . Those not-so-warm feelings for America have fallen 17 percentage points in Egypt and 13 points in Jordan since 2009 , the first year of the Obama administration , when there appeared to be some hope in those nations that Uncle Sam would pursue policies more to their liking . But there are still corners of the world where America is held in high regard . In European countries surveyed , half or more of the publics in seven of nine nations say they see the U.S. in a positive light . Top of the list are Italians ( 78 % ) , French ( 75 % ) and Poles ( 73 % ) . Only in Germany , where U.S. favorability is down 13 points since 2009 , has the positive image of the United States slipped significantly . And , despite this slippage , roughly half of Germans ( 51 % ) still see America favorably .
Yet most of these users did not tweet about immigration regularly . On average , the large majority ( 84 % ) of those who tweeted about immigration with a link did so just once a week or less during the period studied . In contrast , a smaller core tweeted daily or more – 14 % of users in this dataset shared a tweet about immigration with a link daily , on average , with another 2 % doing so semi-daily ( more than once per day , but less than hourly ) , and fewer than 1 % posting hourly , on average . As a result , the large majority of users who tweeted weekly or less did not have a large impact on the overall volume of tweets about immigration that contained a link , producing only about a quarter of them ( 26 % ) . Instead , the users who produced the most tweets were those who tweeted daily ( 32 % of tweets ) . Semi-daily and hourly users each produced about one-in-five of them ( 20 % and 19 % , respectively ) . ( These user types – also referred to as tweeters – are used throughout the rest of the post . )
Most YouTube users in the U.S. say they at least occasionally encounter false or troubling content on the platform . Roughly two-thirds of U.S. adult YouTube users ( 64 % ) say they at least sometimes encounter videos that seem obviously false or untrue while using the site , according to the 2018 survey . A similar share ( 60 % ) reported at least sometimes seeing videos that show people engaging in dangerous or troubling behavior .
In 2012 , 86 % of those surveyed in France expressed confidence in Obama to do the right thing regarding international affairs ; only 14 % said they had little or no confidence in him . This was little changed from 2009 , when Obama first entered office . But it represented a drastic change from George W. Bush 's ratings in France when he was president . In 2008 , only 13 % of the French had confidence in Bush to do the right thing regarding global affairs . Nearly nine-in-ten ( 87 % ) said they lacked confidence in the U.S. president . The French showed little confidence in Bush throughout his two terms .
While the court 's favorability declined this year , partisan differences in opinions about it narrowed . Overall , 54 % of Democrats in the July survey had a favorable view of the court as did 48 % of Republicans , with 47 % of independents sharing that view . In a July 2012 survey , after the court upheld the new health care law , the number of Republicans holding a favorable view of the court dropped to 38 % compared to 56 % who had a positive view in April . After the health care decision , the number of Democrats expressing a favorable view increased 12 points , from 52 % to 64 % .
Americans just are n't picking up the phone much anymore . Eight-in-ten Americans say they do n't generally answer their cellphone when an unknown number calls , according to newly released findings from a Pew Research Center web survey of U.S. adults conducted July 13 - 19 , 2020 . But not all Americans are equally likely to ignore these calls . While , at most , a quarter of Americans from any demographic group say they generally answer the phone for an unknown number – and 19 % of U.S. adults overall say they do so – men are more likely than women to answer the phone . And though much has been made of younger adults ' distaste for phone conversations , the survey finds that Americans ages 18 to 29 are more likely to take calls from unknown numbers than those in older age groups . In addition , Hispanic and Black adults are more likely than White adults to say they generally pick up for a number they do n't recognize , as are those living in households with lower income levels compared with those from middle- and higher-income households . The majority of Americans ( 67 % ) say their general practice is to not answer the phone when an incoming call is from an unknown number but to check a voicemail if one is left . The share of Americans who say they generally ignore any voicemail left after not answering a call is relatively low ( 14 % ) but does vary by gender , race and ethnicity , and income level .
One-in-four ( 25 % ) are very worried about a domestic terrorist attack happening `` soon , '' while about four-in-ten ( 39 % ) are somewhat worried ; 36 % are not too worried or not at all worried . That balance of opinion has not significantly changed since last July . The long-term trend on terrorism concerns has been fairly stable , except on a few occasions , since the fall of 2001 .
Of those internet users who have purchased online content , nearly half ( 46 % ) have purchased only one or two of the types of content covered in our survey . Some 16 % have purchased six or more types of content .
Seven-in-ten American adults ( 72 % ) have read a book within the past year , whether in whole or in part and in any format , according to a survey conducted in March and April . That figure has fallen from 79 % who said in 2011 they had read a book in the previous year , but is statistically in line with survey findings starting in 2012 . Many book publishers , researchers and retailers have wondered whether the introduction of e-books would impact book reading overall or lead to a decline in the number of books read in print . This year 's data show a slight decline in the number of American adults who read print books : 63 % of American adults say they read at least one book in print in the past year , compared with 69 % who said the same the year before and 71 % in 2011 .
On balance , Venezuelans have an unfavorable view of President Maduro . Two years after being voted into office in a special election following Hugo Chávez 's death , Maduro receives only a 29 % favorable rating , compared with 68 % voicing an unfavorable view . However , opposition party leaders do not fare much better . Henrique Capriles , the current governor of Miranda and leader of the Justice First party , also receives a low 36 % positive rating , and a majority views him unfavorably ( 56 % ) . Similarly , Leopoldo López , founder of the Popular Will party , receives just a 36 % favorable review from the Venezuelan people , with a majority ( 55 % ) offering a negative review .
Over the last several years , the Catholic population in the U.S. has shifted somewhat from the Northeast and Midwest toward the South and West regions of the country . Catholics still are more heavily concentrated in the Northeast than are Americans overall ( 26 % vs. 18 % ) . But between 2007 and 2014 , the shares of U.S. Catholics living in the Northeast and Midwest have each fallen by 3 percentage points ( from 29 % to 26 % and from 24 % to 21 % , respectively ) . And the shares living in the South and West have each increased by 3 points ( from 24 % to 27 % and from 23 % to 26 % , respectively ) .
Despite the increased prominence of online platforms when it comes to Americans ' political activity , much of the day-to-day conversation around these issues takes place in traditional ( offline ) channels . On an `` every day '' level , Americans are three times as likely to discuss politics or public affairs with others through offline channels ( in person , by phone call , or by letter ) as they are through online channels . Even the most tech-savvy users — such as young adults , college graduates , or those with high incomes—discuss politics with greater frequency offline than online .
There is much more to the U.S. military than the active-duty force . In recent conflicts around the world , the National Guard and Reserves have often fought alongside the active-duty military . In 2015 , 826,106 adults served in the Selected Reserves – those National Guard members and reservists who were available to be called to active duty . An additional 275,247 adults are in the Inactive National Guard and Individual Ready Reserve and do not engage in regular training or active-duty drills .
Our international polling shows that publics around the world are concerned about climate change . In the recent spring 2010 Pew Global Attitudes survey , majorities in all 22 nations polled rate global climate change a serious problem , and majorities in ten countries say it is a very serious problem . There are some interesting differences among the countries included in the survey . Brazilians are the most concerned about this issue : 85 % consider it a very serious problem . Worries are less intense , however , in the two countries that emit the most carbon dioxide — only 41 % of Chinese and 37 % of American respondents characterize climate change as a very serious challenge .
There are similar fault lines on two related questions : How voters expect to feel if Trump is reelected , and whether Americans overall approve of the job he is doing as president . Most white evangelical Protestant voters say they would be relieved ( 43 % ) or excited ( 36 % ) if Trump wins reelection , while most black Protestants say they would be disappointed ( 60 % ) or angry ( 32 % ) . Religiously unaffiliated voters would also feel negatively about another Trump victory , while Catholics are roughly evenly split between those who say they would have positive and negative emotions .
Republicans are divided ideologically over stricter environmental regulations . Among the roughly two-thirds of Republicans and Republican leaners who describe their political views as conservative , 60 % say stricter laws cost too many jobs and hurt the economy . Among the party 's moderates and liberals ( who make up about a third of all Republicans and GOP leaners ) , 60 % say stricter environmental laws are worth the cost . There also are gender , age and educational differences in these attitudes . Women ( 69 % ) are more likely than men ( 58 % ) to say stricter environmental laws and regulations are worth the cost . And while majorities in every age group say stricter environmental laws are worth it , a larger share of those ages 18 to 29 ( 72 % ) say this compared with those who are older than 50 ( 60 % ) .
Overall , 44 % of adults think the protests , marches and demonstrations will boost public support for science , while an equal share believe the protests will make no difference and 7 % believe the demonstrations will actually hurt the cause . But on this and other questions about the marches there are consistent divides along political and generational lines . For example , 61 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents believe the marches will increase public support for science , while only 22 % of Republicans and those who lean Republican say the same . Instead , 60 % of these Republican backers think the protests will make no difference , compared with just 32 % of Democratic partisans who think that .
Across the political spectrum , few people think that big donors do not command more influence than others : Only about a quarter of those in both parties say this describes the country well . But Democrats are more likely than Republicans ( 50 % vs. 35 % ) to say this statement describes the country not at all well .
Moderate and liberal Republicans are far more likely than conservative Republicans – who make up about two-thirds of all Republicans and GOP leaners – to say Trump has probably done something illegal or unethical . A majority of moderate and liberal Republicans ( 57 % ) say it is definite or probable that Trump has behaved unethically ; fewer conservative Republicans ( 36 % ) say the same .
For the most part , teens tend to use similar platforms regardless of their demographic characteristics , but there are exceptions . Notably , lower-income teens are more likely to gravitate toward Facebook than those from higher-income households – a trend consistent with previous Center surveys . Seven-in-ten teens living in households earning less than $ 30,000 a year say they use Facebook , compared with 36 % whose annual family income is $ 75,000 or more . ( For details on social media platform use by different demographic groups , see Appendix A . ) Again , lower-income teens are far more likely than those from higher income households to say Facebook is the online platform they use most often ( 22 % vs. 4 % ) . There are also some differences related to gender and to race and ethnicity when it comes to teens ' most-used sites . Girls are more likely than boys to say Snapchat is the site they use most often ( 42 % vs. 29 % ) , while boys are more inclined than girls to identify YouTube as their go-to platform ( 39 % vs. 25 % ) . Additionally , white teens ( 41 % ) are more likely than Hispanic ( 29 % ) or black ( 23 % ) teens to say Snapchat is the online platform they use most often , while black teens are more likely than whites to identify Facebook as their most used site ( 26 % vs. 7 % ) .
Opinions about whether it is more important to control gun ownership or protect gun rights have been closely divided for several years . Today , somewhat more say it is more important to control gun ownership ( 52 % ) than to protect the right of Americans to own guns ( 44 % ) , according to a separate national survey , conducted Sept. 18 - 24 among 1,754 adults . These attitudes , like many related to gun policy , have long been deeply divided along partisan lines . But the partisan gap has widened : In 2010 , Barack Obama 's second year in office , Republicans were about twice as likely as Democrats to prioritize gun rights rather than gun control ( 65 % vs. 33 % ) . Today , Republicans are four times more likely than Democrats to say gun rights are more important ( 76 % vs. 19 % ) .
About half of Republicans and Republican leaners ( 52 % ) said they lived in areas where most of their neighbors supported Trump , while 42 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners said they lived in areas that mostly supported Clinton . Republicans who live in counties that voted overwhelmingly for Trump were much more likely than those who lived in areas that mostly supported Clinton to say that most of their neighbors supported Trump ( 73 % in counties that voted strongly for Trump versus 17 % in counties that voted strongly for Clinton ) .
The accompanying graph showing partisan leanings in 2014 for adults based on the year they were born is an example of this . The line shows the percentage identifying or leaning Democratic minus the percentage identifying or leaning Republican . The further left the line on the graph , the larger the Democratic advantage for that year ; the further right , the larger the Republican advantage .
This is substantially less than the share who very closely followed news about shootings last December at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown , Conn. ( 57 % ) or last July in an Aurora , Colo. movie theater ( 48 % ) . About four-in-ten ( 44 % ) followed the 2009 shooting at the Fort Hood Army post in Texas very closely .
Public concerns about immigration often center around culture and a perceived link to terrorism . Across the 10 nations surveyed , a median of 51 % believe immigrants want to remain distinct from the broader society , while 38 % think they want to adopt the nation 's customs and way of life . A median of 57 % say immigration increases the risk of terrorism in their country , while 38 % believe it does not .
Most age groups are living in larger households this decade . The change is most apparent for adults ages 35 and older . For example , in 2017 , 67 % of 35- to 54-year-olds lived in a household with three or more people , an increase from 64 % in 2010 . A similar increase in households of three or more is apparent among 55- to 64-year-olds .
With violence continuing to rage in Egypt , 51 % of Americans say it is better for the United States to cut off military aid to Egypt to put pressure on the government . This is nearly double the percentage ( 26 % ) saying it is better to continue military aid to the government in order to maintain influence in Egypt .
The number of unauthorized immigrants living in Europe increased between 2014 and 2016 , then leveled off to an estimated 3.9 million to 4.8 million in 2017 , according to new estimates from Pew Research Center . Europe is one of the world 's top destinations for international migrants . In recent years , their population has grown as high numbers of immigrants have entered Europe , including some seeking asylum .
These policy debates are occurring at a time when roughly nine-in-ten Americans describe high-speed internet service as either essential ( 49 % ) or important but not essential ( 41 % ) . Only about one-in-ten Americans say that high-speed internet access is either not too important ( 6 % ) or not important at all ( 3 % ) . Republicans and Democrats tend to agree that broadband is important , but Democrats are more likely to say it is essential : 58 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners describe broadband in this way , compared with 38 % of Republicans and Republican leaners . A similar split is evident by race and ethnicity , with blacks ( 55 % ) and Hispanics ( 61 % ) more likely than whites ( 45 % ) to say that high-speed access at home is essential .
Democrats are also more likely to support the sanctions and actions taken against Russia as a response . Among those who have heard about the allegations , 51 % of Democrats view the response as about right , while 37 % say the sanctions and actions do not go far enough and just 7 % say they go too far . By comparison , about a third of Republicans ( 35 % ) say the sanctions and actions against Russia go too far , while 39 % say they are about right and just 17 % say they do not go far enough .
Public views of allowing increased offshore oil and gas drilling shifted noticeably last year in response to the Gulf oil leak . Since last summer , they have shifted again . Currently , 57 % favor allowing more oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters , up 13 points since last June ( 44 % ) . Nonetheless , support for expanded offshore drilling remains lower than in February 2010 ( 63 % ) .
Similarly , the public 's demand for political stability rose dramatically in the past twelve months . Last year , a majority ( 55 % ) said it was more important to have a democratic government , even if there was some political instability . Roughly four-in-ten ( 38 % ) thought it was more important to have stability . In 2013 , attitudes have flipped – just 37 % now choose democracy and 56 % say stability is a higher priority , even if the government is not fully democratic .
As Congress prepares to vote on the Iran nuclear agreement , public support for the deal has declined . Currently , just 21 % approve of the agreement on Iran 's nuclear program reached between the United States , Iran and other nations . Nearly half ( 49 % ) disapprove of the agreement , while three-in-ten ( 30 % ) offer no opinion . In mid-July , a week after President Obama announced the deal , 33 % of the public approved of the agreement , while 45 % disapproved and 22 % had no opinion . Over the past six weeks , the share approving of the agreement has fallen 12 percentage points ( from 33 % to 21 % ) , while disapproval has held fairly steady ( 45 % then , 49 % now ) . Somewhat more express no opinion than did so in July ( 22 % then , 30 % now ) .
Approval of the congressional leadership of both parties continues to be low among the public . In particular , ratings of Republican leaders are far more negative than they are for their Democratic counterparts . Today , 34 % of Americans approve of the job Democratic leaders are doing , while just 19 % approve of the GOP leaders ' job performance .
Three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) followed campaign news very closely and an equal number called the race their most closely followed news story of the week . Democrats were slightly more likely than Republicans to have followed campaign news very closely ( 39 % -31 % ) . Overall interest in campaign news is down somewhat from February and early March . The percentage of Americans following the campaign very closely had been at or near 40 % since early February and has started to slip over the past two weeks . Despite receiving a significantly smaller share of media coverage , the condition of the U.S. economy is of at least as much interest to the American public . More than four-in-ten followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy very closely and 28 % listed economic news as their most closely followed story . Republicans and Democrats followed the news in equal numbers , while those earning under $ 30,000 a year were less likely than higher earners to have followed the story very closely .
Dissatisfaction is apparent even in some of the most established democracies . More than half of those surveyed in the UK ( 69 % ) , the U.S. ( 59 % ) , France ( 58 % ) and Japan ( 53 % ) express dissatisfaction with how democracy is working in their country . In Greece , 74 % are dissatisfied , the highest share of all countries surveyed . People in Asia-Pacific countries are most satisfied : A median of 58 % in the region express satisfaction with how democracy is working in their country .
Views of Mexico are mixed : While 39 % say they feel `` warmly '' toward Mexico , 34 % feel `` coldly , '' and 26 % are neutral , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted July 30 to Aug. 12 among 4,581 adults . The public has much warmer feelings toward Canada . Two-thirds ( 67 % ) say they feel warmly toward Canada , with 52 % giving it a very warm rating ( 76 or higher on the scale ) . Just 12 % feel coldly toward Canada .
These are the principal findings from the latest survey in Ukraine by the Pew Research Center . Based on face-to-face interviews between April 5 - 23 , with 1,659 randomly selected adults from across the country , the poll finds that along with questions about the country 's leadership , Ukrainians are far from satisfied with the involvement of foreign powers to date . The European Union fairs best in the eyes of Ukrainians , with a 45 % -plurality describing its influence in Ukraine as good . Meanwhile , assessments of the U.S. impact on Ukraine are split : 38 % positive , 38 % negative . Russia is viewed with the greatest suspicion . Three times as many Ukrainians say Russia is having a bad influence on their country as say it is having a good impact ( 67 % vs. 22 % ) . At the same time , overall confidence in Putin 's handling of world affairs has plummeted from 56 % in 2007 to 23 % today .
Recent surveys at Pew Research show that 91 % of American adults have cell phones and that smartphones have overtaken simpler `` feature phones '' in popularity . The adoption pattern of cell phones in emerging countries like Turkey , Lebanon and Chile do not look very different from America . China and Russia have even nudged ahead of the U.S . But other countries lag . In Pakistan , slightly more than half have a cell phone and in Mexico , it 's just above six-in-ten . Still , the rapid rise in cell phone ownership is quite breathtaking and might be due to the fact that many nations , unlike the U.S. , have skipped landline technology and moved straight to mobile . Smartphone adoption , however , shows a different picture . More than half of Americans ( 55 % ) have a smartphone , 34 % have a feature phone , and 9 % have no phone . Elsewhere in the world , a smartphone is less common . However , significant minorities in countries such as Lebanon ( 45 % ) and China ( 37 % ) own a smartphone and the future looks bright for the technology . In every country polled , there is a significant age gap on smartphone ownership , with people under 30 more likely to own the devices . For instance , 69 % of 18- 29 year-olds in China have a smartphone , making it the predominant technological choice for future generations .
Teenagers have previously lagged behind adults in their ownership of cell phones , but several years of survey data collected by the Pew Internet & American Life Project show that those ages 12 - 17 are closing the gap in cell phone ownership . The Project first began surveying teenagers about their mobile phones in its 2004 Teens and Parents project when a survey showed that 45 % of teens had a cell phone . Since that time , mobile phone use has climbed steadily among teens ages 12 to 17 – to 63 % in fall of 2006 and then to 71 % in early 2008 .
A number of congressional districts in the South saw the fastest growth of Latino eligible voters in the country . North Carolina 's 8th District saw the nation 's largest increase ( 163.2 % ) in Latino eligible voters between 2014 and 2017 . The next five districts with the largest growth during this time are Florida 's 6th ( up 110.3 % ) , North Carolina 's 5th ( 71.3 % ) and Florida 's 16th ( 70.5 % ) .
Fewer than half ( 46 % ) of U.S. kids younger than 18 years of age are living in a home with two married heterosexual parents in their first marriage . This is a marked change from 1960 , when 73 % of children fit this description , and 1980 , when 61 % did , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of recently released American Community Survey ( ACS ) and Decennial Census data . According to our analysis , today 15 % of children are living with two parents who are in a remarriage . It is difficult to accurately identify stepchildren in the ACS data , so we do n't know for sure if these kids are from another union , or were born within the remarriage . However , data from another Census source—the 2013 Current Population Survey ( CPS ) —indicates that 6 % of all children are living with a stepparent . One of the largest shifts in family structure is this : 34 % of children today are living with an unmarried parent—up from just 9 % in 1960 , and 19 % in 1980 . In most cases , these unmarried parents are single . However , a small share of all children—4 % —are living with two cohabiting parents , according to CPS data . Because of concerns about the quality of the new 2013 ACS data on same-sex marriage , we do not separate out the very small number of children whose parents are identified as in this type of union , but instead fold them into this `` single parent '' category .
American , French , Italian and Japanese views are out of step with those of their TPP and TTIP counterparts on a number of trade and investment issues . Americans and Japanese are far less likely than publics in other TPP countries ( a median of 55 % ) to hold the view that growing international business ties will create new employment , a politically sensitive issue in each country . And French ( 24 % ) , Americans ( 20 % ) and Italians ( 13 % ) are less likely than their TTIP negotiating partners ( a median of 50 % ) to agree that trade leads to more jobs . Americans , French , Italians and Japanese are also more skeptical than others in the two sets of trade talks about the impact of trade on wages and the value of foreigners buying local companies .
Nearly half of Americans ( 47 % ) say their greater concern about government anti-terrorism policies is that they have gone too far in restricting the average person 's civil liberties ; 35 % say their greater concern is that they have not gone far enough to adequately protect the country . There has been a 15-point rise in the percentage saying their greater concern is civil liberties since Pew Research last asked the question in October 2010 . This is the first time a plurality has expressed greater concern about civil liberties than security since the question was first asked in 2004 .
Online Americans especially highlight how the internet and cell phones have made them better informed about products and services available for sale , national and international news , and popular culture . Asked if their internet use affected their being better informed on these issues compared with five years ago :
When asked which country is the world 's leading economic power , Americans and Germans give starkly different answers . Half of Americans name the U.S. , with about a third ( 32 % ) choosing China . However , roughly half of Germans name China ( 53 % ) as the leading economic power compared with 24 % who name the U.S . Relatively few in both countries see Japan or the countries of the European Union as the leading economic power , although 14 % in Germany name the EU , about twice as many as in the U.S .
Last fall , a Pew Research Center survey also found record anti-incumbent sentiment , though it went about measuring it somewhat differently . We asked registered voters whether or not they 'd like to see their representative re-elected in the next election . Fully 38 % said no , the highest level for that response in the two decades we have been asking that question .
Americans today have an enormous variety of content available to them at any time of day , and this material is available in a number of formats and through a range of digitally connected devices . Yet even as the number of ways people spend their time has expanded , a Pew Research Center survey finds that the share of Americans who have read a book in the last 12 months ( 73 % ) has remained largely unchanged since 2012 . And when people reach for a book , it is much more likely to be a traditional print book than a digital product . Fully 65 % of Americans have read a print book in the last year , more than double the share that has read an e-book ( 28 % ) and more than four times the share that has consumed book content via audio book ( 14 % ) .
The vast majority of these PPP loans were relatively small in size . About eight-in-ten ( 84 % ) were for less than $ 150,000 , 9 % ranged from $ 150,000 to $ 350,000 , 4 % were between $ 350,000 and $ 1 million , and about 3 % were $ 1 million or more . This was about on par with PPP loans across all industries , of which 87 % were less than $ 150,000 , according to the SBA . In the data released by the SBA , loans were broken out into six different ranges and these ranges are used throughout this report . Out of the 2,778 self-identified newspaper companies that received PPP loans , 2,435 provided employment figures . In total , that amounted to an estimated 40,236 employees , with an average of 14 employees per loan . Companies that received loans that were less than $ 150,000 reported six jobs per loan on average , those with loans in the $ 150,000- $ 350,000 range reported 26 jobs on average and companies with loans ranging from $ 350,000 to $ 1 million reported 53 on average . Companies with loans issued for more than $ 1 million tended to have more jobs per loan on average , but these larger loans made up only a small share of the total number issued . Since 12 % of newspaper companies that received PPP loans did not report their number of employees , it is likely that the number of newspaper employees within companies that received loans is higher .
Those who say it is never acceptable to use an anonymous source are roughly three times as likely to say it has a great deal of influence on whether they think a story is credible ( 49 % vs. 15 % of those who say it is acceptable in special cases and 14 % of those who say always acceptable ) . Still , majorities of all three groups say that an anonymous source has at least some influence on their trust in a story .
Part of the reason behind the absence of data on this group is the size of the multiracial population – it 's still relatively small . As you note , we estimate that only about 6.9 % of the adult population has a mixed-race background . And by the Census Bureau 's definition the share is just 2.1 % . That means even large , nationally representative surveys typically include too few mixed-race adults to analyze , much less contain sufficiently sized samples of individual multiracial groups such as white and black or white and Asian biracial adults .
Women may have made measurable progress in the workplace over the last few decades , yet old ways die hard . Women still lag when it comes to holding top managerial positions . And among those with a preference , both men and women say they prefer male bosses and co-workers . Only 24 women ( about 5 % ) currently are CEOs of Fortune 500 companies , according to an analysis by Catalyst , a nonprofit seeking to expand opportunities for women . Yet this is up from 20 female CEOs in 2013 , and only one in 1998 . Less than 9 % of top management positions are filled by women , and the rates have declined in some key sectors in recent years . A similar analysis by Catalyst last year — this one looking at Fortune 1000 companies — found 45 women CEOs , up from 16 a decade prior , but still less than 5 % of all top jobs . Gallup has been tracking gender preferences in the workplace since 1953 , when fully two-thirds of American adults ( 66 % ) said they would prefer a male boss if they had a choice in a new job . Another 25 % volunteered that it made no difference , and only 5 % said they would prefer a female boss . As of November 2013 , the gap has narrowed but remains . A plurality ( 41 % ) say it makes no difference , but the rest prefer a male boss over a female boss by 35 % -23 % .
When they go to the store , which greeting do Americans prefer : `` merry Christmas '' or `` happy holidays '' ? For some , this can be a sensitive question , but an increasing number of Americans do not seem to have strong feelings either way . About half of Americans ( 52 % ) now say it does n't matter how stores greet their customers over the holidays , up from 46 % in 2012 . About a third ( 32 % ) choose `` merry Christmas '' – down considerably from the 42 % who said this five years ago . Republicans are much more likely than Democrats to say they prefer `` merry Christmas . ''
Again , on balance , foreign publics lack confidence in Trump to do the right thing when it comes to world affairs . The survey , conducted in spring and summer 2019 , finds that the lack of confidence in the 45th U.S. president is driven in part by opposition to his policies . A median of 68 % across the nations polled say they disapprove of the U.S. increasing tariffs on imported goods ; a median of 66 % oppose the Trump administration 's withdrawal from international climate agreements ; and 60 % disapprove of Trump 's proposal to build a wall on the border with Mexico .
The national survey by Pew Research Center – conducted March 10 - 16 among 8,914 adults using the Center 's American Trends Panel , in conjunction with the Center 's Election News Pathways project – finds widespread public confidence that public health officials at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) and state and local government officials are doing a good job in responding to the coronavirus outbreak . More than eight-in-ten ( 83 % ) say they are very or somewhat confident that CDC officials are doing a good job , including 40 % who are very confident . Most ( 73 % ) also say they are confident in state and local government officials . The public is less confident in how President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence are responding to the crisis : Fewer than half are very or somewhat confident that Trump ( 45 % ) and Pence ( 48 % ) are doing a good job responding to the crisis .
In general , American views of Mexico have remained quite positive , despite frictions between the U.S. and Mexican presidents . In fact , the percentage of Americans with a favorable opinion of Mexico is up 12 points since the last time this question was asked in 2010 . But Mexican views of the U.S. have deteriorated , plunging from 66 % favorable in 2015 to only 30 % favorable in 2017 .
The new survey , which began a week after the Democratic convention ended , finds that Democratic engagement in the 2012 election has spiked , and the engagement gap evident earlier in the campaign has largely disappeared . Democratic voters are now as likely as Republicans to say they have given quite a lot of thought to the election and are following campaign news as closely . Democratic voters also are as committed to voting , and as certain of their vote , as are their GOP counterparts .
The survey finds that the growth in negative attitudes toward the news media in recent years in several key areas has come among Democrats and independents . Since Barack Obama took office , the proportion of Democrats saying that news stories are often inaccurate has risen sharply , and they are now nearly as critical as Republicans . In 2007 , 43 % of Democrats and 56 % of independents said stories were often inaccurate . Since then , the percentage of Democrats expressing skepticism about the accuracy of news reports has increased by 21 points to 64 % , and the percentage of independents saying this has grown by 10 points . Republican views have held fairly steady : 69 % see stories as often inaccurate , little changed from four years ago ( 63 % ) .
The same pattern was found for people 's beliefs about energy issues . The survey found that Republicans more than Democrats favored expanding fossil fuel energy sources , as has been the case in past Pew Research Center surveys . The 2016 survey found that the vast majority of Democrats with high science knowledge opposed expanding offshore oil drilling , fracking and coal mining . Democrats with low science knowledge were more closely divided over these issues . Republicans ' views about these energy issues were about the same regardless of their level of science knowledge .
But estimating how many white-collar workers would become overtime-eligible under the proposed rule , and what sorts of jobs they hold , is no easy task , even for the Labor Department itself . For our analysis , we used the IPUMS-CPS dataset , drawn from the U.S. Census Bureau 's Current Population Survey , a supplemental portion of which asks people about their incomes as well as their occupations , making estimation possible . ( We did n't attempt to model how employers might respond to the new rules . ) By our estimates , last year just under 4.9 million workers would have become newly eligible for overtime pay had the rule been in place . That 's somewhat more than the Labor Department 's estimate of 4.65 million , though they used pooled 2011 - 13 data and a more detailed methodology . ( Other estimates of the number of affected workers range from 3 million , by the American Action Forum , to 5.9 million , by the Institute for Women 's Policy Research . ) Although the 4.9 million employees in our estimate worked in more than 150 separately defined occupations , just 14 occupations accounted for more than half the estimated impact . Those range from the to-be-expected ( retail , food service and office managers of various sorts ) to the somewhat surprising ( designers , accountants and auditors ) .
Among the top five nations with which the U.S. runs a trade deficit , Germany has a $ 912 per capita trade advantage with the U.S. ( total deficit divided by Germany 's total population ) , compared with China 's $ 266 per capita imbalance . This is largely because China 's large workforce churns out a high volume of low-value products for export to the U.S. , while Germany 's smaller workforce largely produces high-value products , such as automobiles , to sell to Americans .
It 's important to note that while the share of college-educated immigrants in the U.S. trails those of some other countries , the U.S. is home to the largest number of college-educated immigrants in the world . As of 2015 , the U.S. had some 14.7 million immigrants ages 25 and older with a postsecondary diploma or college degree . This is more than three times the number in Canada ( 4.4 million ) and about four times as many as the UK ( 3.4 million ) . Other countries with high numbers of college-educated immigrants include Australia ( 3.0 million ) , Germany ( 2.0 million ) and France ( 1.8 million ) .
About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 72 % ) say they agree with the Republican Party almost always ( 22 % ) or more than half of the time ( 51 % ) on issues ; another 21 % agree with the party `` about half of the time , '' while just 7 % agree `` less than half of the time '' or `` almost never . '' Both Republicans and Democrats have largely positive views of members of the military and police officers , though in both cases Republicans ' ratings of the groups are warmer than Democratic ratings . Fully 93 % of Republicans have a warm rating of people in the military , including 86 % who give a very warm rating ( 76 or higher on the 0 - 100 scale ) . Though Democrats are less intensely positive than Republicans about members the military , 82 % give a warm rating – including 69 % who view service members very warmly . The partisan divide is more pronounced in views of police officers . Overall , 64 % of the public views police officers warmly , 16 % give them a neutral rating , while 18 % view them coldly . While 86 % of Republicans give officers warm ratings – and about three-quarters ( 74 % ) view them very warmly – a smaller majority of Democrats ( 57 % ) view officers warmly , and just 33 % give them very warm ratings . Independents ' ratings are similar to Democrats ( 65 % warm , 43 % very warm ) . Still , only about two-in-ten Democrats ( 19 % ) or independents ( 16 % ) view officers coldly .
There has been no significant change in public views on the issue of gun control and gun rights following the July 20th shooting at a movie theater in Aurora , Colorado . Currently , 47 % say it is more important to control gun ownership , while 46 % say it is more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns . That is virtually unchanged from a survey earlier this year in April , when 45 % prioritized gun control and 49 % gun rights .
Similarly , the bulk of political campaign contributions happen offline , even as online donations have grown more prominent in recent years . Some 23 % of political donors made only online contributions in 2012 , yet the substantial majority of political donors ( 60 % ) make contributions only via offline methods ( that is , in person , over the telephone , or via regular mail ) .
A majority of the public continues to say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy . At the same time , more than three-quarters ( 77 % ) say they are hearing mostly bad news about gas prices . About two-thirds ( 64 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy , down slightly from the 68 % that said this in early January . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) report hearing mostly bad news . Just 6 % say they are hearing mostly good news about economic conditions . These numbers have changed only slightly since January , when perceptions of the economic news mix proved much more positive than one month earlier . In January , 24 % said economic news was mostly bad , a drop of 15 points from 39 % in December .
The public is unlikely to be satisfied with the Supreme Court 's upcoming ruling on the 2010 Affordable Care Act – no matter what the Court decides . Whether the Court decides to uphold the entire law , overturn the entire law , or reject the `` individual mandate '' while allowing the rest of the law to remain in place , fewer than half of Americans say they would be happy with the decision .
Overall , nearly nine-in-ten Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 87 % ) and about seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 71 % ) said they had a fair amount or great deal of confidence in police officers to act in the best interests of the public . But there were wide divisions between black and white Democrats in their confidence in police officers . While 78 % of white Democrats said they had at least a fair amount of confidence in officers to act in the public 's best interests , just 54 % of black Democrats said the same .
When it comes to which country is the world 's leading military power , more than eight-in-ten Americans agree that it 's the U.S. , up 11 percentage points since the question was last asked in 2016 . Only 6 % name China , a 6-point decrease . Similarly , few name Russia ( 8 % ) , a view largely unchanged since four years ago . Regardless of whether they think the U.S. is the leading economic or military power today , nearly all Americans also think that a future with U.S. leadership is a better thing than one with Chinese leadership . When forced to choose between which would be better for the world , 91 % of Americans say it is better for the U.S. to be the world 's leading power than China ( 4 % ) , largely unchanged since 2018 when the question was last asked . While there is widespread agreement across all groups in society , Republicans and those who see China 's power and influence as a major threat are more likely than Democrats and those who feel less threatened to value U.S. global leadership .
The attack on the offices of the satirical French newspaper Charlie Hebdo claiming 12 lives was the most closely followed news in the U.S. last week , but interest in the story was not as high when compared with four previous terrorist incidents abroad . About three-in-ten Americans ( 29 % ) say they had followed the news from Paris very closely , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The previous terrorist attacks that had drawn the highest shares of American news interest resulted in significant numbers of casualties . One was the 2005 bombings of three trains and a bus in London that killed 52 people and injured more than 700 . The second was the 2004 assault of Chechen rebels on a Russian school that resulted in more than 300 deaths , about half of them children . In both cases , 48 % of Americans said they had followed those stories very closely . Other incidents abroad that had a higher share of news interest were the 2004 train bombings in Madrid , killing 191 people and injuring 1,800 , and a planned terrorist attack in London in 2007 that was thwarted when police defused bombs in a pair of cars made with gasoline , gas cylinders and nails that could have caused a large number of casualties . About a third ( 34 % ) of Americans followed these stories very closely .
As Donald Trump and congressional Republicans take steps to roll back Obama-era financial regulations , the public remains divided over whether regulations of financial institutions have gone too far or not gone far enough . Overall , about half of Americans ( 49 % ) say `` the government has not gone far enough in regulating financial institutions and markets , leaving the country at risk of another financial crisis , '' while 42 % say the government has gone too far , `` making it harder for the economy to grow . '' These views are largely unchanged over the past several years . By roughly two-to-one , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are more likely to say financial regulations have gone too far ( 63 % ) than to say they have not gone far enough ( 31 % ) . The balance of opinion among Democrats and Democratic leaners is reversed : More than twice as many Democrats say the government has not gone far enough in this area ( 62 % ) as say it has gone too far ( 29 % ) . The partisan gap over financial regulation has changed little since Pew Research Center first asked the question in September 2013 .
Nearly all Americans ( 95 % ) view the issue of health care reform as important . Substantial majorities also say this issue affects them personally ( 78 % ) and is interesting ( 72 % ) . Yet health care reform also is an issue that most Americans find difficult to understand : 63 % say it is hard to understand , while just 34 % say it is easy to understand .
This means that approximately 34 million American Internet users have heard of VoIP and 4 million have given thought to using Voice over Internet Protocol service for home telephone service . The survey also found that 11 % of Internet users , or about 14 million Americans , have at one time made a phone call over the Internet . This figure includes people who may have used VoIP at work or perhaps have downloaded free software that permits phone calls between Internet-connected computers .
Although there was little change in employment and compensation in 2013 , there were some shifts in job duties for recent grads . The proportion of employed bachelor 's degree holders writing and editing for the Web dropped to 60 % in 2013 , down from 64 % a year earlier . And blogging seems to be on the decline . In 2013 , the percentage of recently employed graduates who were either creating or using blogs as part of their job was 27 % —down from 36 % three years earlier . At the same time , producing mobile content is becoming a significantly bigger part of the work experience these days . In 2013 , 17 % of employed bachelor 's degree holders said they produced content for mobile devices , up from 13 % in 2012 and nearly double the 9 % reported in 2011 .
Yet a Pew Research Center survey , conducted Jan. 23-Feb. 9 , shows that most Americans favor a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants , though there are partisan and ideological differences over the issue . Nationwide , 76 % say people currently in the country illegally should be eligible for citizenship if they meet certain requirements , and just 23 % disagree . Among Republicans , that majority slips to 66 % vs. 32 % . And narrowing further to Republicans who agree with the Tea Party still finds a 59 % majority in favor of a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants , and 39 % opposed .
Opinions about whether it is more important to control gun ownership or protect gun rights have changed little in recent years . Overall , 53 % of Americans say it is more important to control gun ownership , while 47 % say it is more important to protect the right of Americans to own guns . Views on overall priorities for gun policies have long been divided along partisan lines , but these differences have widened considerably over the past decade . In 2010 , President Barack Obama 's second year in office , Republicans were about twice as likely as Democrats to say gun rights were more important than gun control ( 65 % vs. 33 % ) . In the current survey , Republicans are nearly four times as likely as Democrats to say gun rights are more important than gun control ( 80 % vs. 21 % ) .
The campaign also was the public 's top story last week , with 20 % citing the news about the presidential candidates as the story they followed most closely . But nearly as many ( 17 % ) mentioned the situation in Iraq or news about U.S. soldiers returning home from the war ( 15 % ) as their top stories . Notably , news organizations devoted just 3 % of coverage to the Iraq home front , including stories about Iraq war veterans . Interest in events on the ground in Iraq also remained high last week : 31 % followed the war very closely and 17 % listed it as their most closely followed news story . The public continues to express less interest in the debate in Washington over U.S. policy in Iraq than in the war itself . Fewer than one-in-four ( 23 % ) followed that story very closely and 6 % listed it as their most closely followed story . More than a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) paid very close attention to the presidential campaign last week . Interest in the campaign is up modestly from October when , on average , 20 % of the public was following campaign news very closely . Democrats continue to pay closer attention than Republicans to the campaign . Last week 34 % of Democrats and 24 % of Republicans were following the campaign very closely . Only 21 % of independents were paying very close attention .
The distinction of being the fastest-growing racial/ethnic group in the United States has alternated between Asians and Hispanics in recent decades . Since 2010 , though , Asians have had the edge . New Census Bureau data estimate that the U.S. Hispanic population topped 54 million as of July 1 , 2013 , an increase of 2.1 % over 2012 . Meanwhile , the Asian population grew to 19.4 million , with a growth rate of 2.9 % . U.S. births have been the primary driving force behind the increase in the Hispanic population since 2000 and that trend continued between 2012 and 2013 . The Census Bureau estimates that natural increase ( births minus deaths ) accounted for 78 % of the total change in the U.S. Hispanic population from 2012 to 2013 . By comparison , growth in the Asian American population has been fueled primarily by immigration . Fully 74 % of Asian adults in 2012 were foreign born according to Pew Research Center analysis of Census data , and international migration accounted for about 61 % of the total change in the Asian American population from 2012 to 2013 . ( Asian American figures represent the population who reported their race alone or in combination with one or more races , and includes Hispanics . Hispanics are of any race . )
NASA continues to be very popular among the public , with four times as many Americans holding a favorable view of the space agency as unfavorable ( 68 % vs. 17 % ) . In contrast with many other departments and agencies of the federal government , Republicans and Democrats generally have the same positive view . Highly educated Americans have an especially positive view of NASA . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) of those with a graduate degree view the agency favorably , while just 11 % view it unfavorably . Among those with no more than a high school education , 61 % have a favorable impression of NASA and 21 % view the agency unfavorably . Majorities of independents ( 70 % ) , Democrats ( 68 % ) and Republicans ( 63 % ) have favorable opinions of NASA .
Nearly half of Democrats ( 48 % ) and independents ( 49 % ) now support the legalization of marijuana . In 2000 , 29 % of Democrats and 35 % of independents said the use of marijuana should be made legal . By comparison , 24 % of Republicans support legalization now , similar to the 26 % who favored this a decade ago .
As the visibility of transgender Americans has increased in recent years , it has been accompanied by a contentious political debate over the rights of the estimated 0.6 % of U.S. adults who identify as transgender – in particular , which public restrooms they should legally be allowed to enter . About half of U.S. adults ( 51 % ) say transgender individuals should be allowed to use public restrooms that correspond with the gender they currently identify with , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . But nearly as many ( 46 % ) take the opposite position – on the side of the North Carolina law – and say transgender people should be required to use bathrooms that match the gender they were born into . Religion , age , gender and politics are all connected with views on this issue . For instance , a majority of Americans who say they attend religious services at least weekly – especially white evangelicals – say transgender people should be required to use bathrooms of their gender at birth , while most of those who attend services less often ( particularly people who do not identify with any religion ) take the more liberal position that such individuals should be allowed to use bathrooms that correspond to their gender identity . Also , more women than men take the liberal stance ( 55 % vs. 45 % ) as do young adults when compared with older Americans ( 67 % of those ages 18 to 29 , compared with about half or fewer in older age groups ) . In addition , those who are Democrats or who lean Democratic are far more likely than Republicans and GOP leaners ( 68 % vs. 30 % ) to say transgender people should be able to use the bathroom that fits their gender identity .
The survey found that 58 % of adults say there are `` very strong '' or `` strong '' conflicts in our society between the rich and the poor , down from the 66 % who said the same in a December 2011 survey . Similarly , 55 % of adults said there were very strong or strong conflicts between immigrants and the native born , down from the 62 % in late 2011 . At the same time , a larger share of the public saw major partisan conflict ( 81 % ) between Republicans and Democrats than saw similarly large disputes between rich and poor ( 58 % ) , immigrants and native born ( 55 % ) , blacks and whites ( 39 % ) or the old and the young ( 29 % ) .
Overall , most people surveyed have an unfavorable impression of Hamas , a militant Palestinian organization that is in control of the Gaza Strip and designated a terrorist organization by the U.S . This includes people who live under its rule . More than half in the Palestinian territories ( 53 % ) have an unfavorable view of Hamas , with only about a third ( 35 % ) expressing positive views . Negative views are higher in the Hamas-led Gaza Strip ( 63 % ) , up from 54 % in 2013 . In the Fatah-led West Bank , 47 % have an unfavorable opinion of Hamas .
Last week , the public continued to track a number of economic policy developments very closely . Final passage of the $ 787 billion economic stimulus legislation was the top story in terms of news interest . Roughly four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they followed final action on the economic stimulus bill very closely , while 35 % named this story as the news item they followed most closely – by far the highest percentage for any of the week 's stories .
And yet , when examining the total population of mothers who stay at home with their children , these so-called `` opt-out moms '' make up a very small share ( 4 % ) . Most of the recent growth in stay-at-home moms has been driven by those with less education , according to a recent Pew Research Center report .
Similarly , younger Central and Eastern Europeans are twice as likely as older adults to say they favor same-sex marriage ( a regional median of 23 % of those ages 18 to 39 favor same-sex marriage , compared with 12 % of those 40 and older ) . But overall support is low among both groups .
A small number of highly active bots were responsible for a large share of links to prominent news and media sites . We found that the 500 most active suspected bot accounts were responsible for 22 % of the tweeted links to popular news and current events sites during the study period . By comparison , the 500 most active human users were responsible for a much smaller share ( an estimated 6 % ) of tweeted links to these outlets . Note : These findings are based on an analysis of a sample of 1.2 million public tweets collected via Twitter 's streaming API between July 27 and Sept. 6 , 2017 , containing links to popular websites . See the report 's Methodology section for more details .
The U.S. general public is also supportive of allowing unauthorized immigrants to remain in the country legally . A Pew Research Center/USA TODAY survey from last June found that 71 % of U.S. adults said there should be a way for undocumented immigrants to stay in the country legally , if they meet certain requirements ( a different survey question than that asked of Hispanics and Asian Americans ) . Support for legalization crosses party lines—majorities of Democrats ( 80 % ) and Republicans ( 61 % ) said they support this measure . The same survey found that most Americans believe legalization should be tied to improved border security—fully 77 % said this . But the public was divided when it came to the timing of this link . Some 43 % of U.S. adults said legalization should occur only after the effective control of U.S. borders is achieved , but half ( 49 % ) said unauthorized immigrants should be allowed to apply for legal status while border improvements are being made .
The Honduran and Salvadoran child migrants are from some of the most violent regions in those countries . San Pedro Sula in Honduras is the world 's murder capital , with a homicide rate of 187 homicides per 100,000 inhabitants in 2013 driven by a surge in gang and drug trafficking violence . For the entire country Honduras 's murder rate was 90 per 100,000 in 2012 , the highest in the world . In 2011 , El Salvador was not far behind , at 70 , ranking second in terms of homicides in Latin America then . Even with a significant drop in the murder rate from 70 in 2011 to 41 in 2012 , El Salvador is only surpassed by Honduras , Venezuela and Belize in the entire world .
Income and education also influence how people look for a new church . In some cases , church `` shoppers '' with higher incomes are more likely than less-affluent adults to research a potential new religious congregation . For instance , among the roughly half of Americans who have looked for a new congregation , 44 % of those with family incomes of $ 75,000 or more read about the congregation online , compared with 37 % of those with incomes between $ 30,000 and $ 74,999 , and about three-in-ten ( 28 % ) with incomes below $ 30,000 . People with higher incomes also are more likely to visit houses of worship to attend services and to talk to friends or colleagues before choosing a new congregation .
Democrats ' views are little changed over this period . In the January survey , 56 % of Democrats and Democratic leaners say world problems would be worse without U.S. involvement . Younger Americans are more likely to say that U.S. involvement in the world usually makes problems worse compared with those 50 and older . Those under 30 are about evenly divided with 43 % saying that U.S. involvement usually makes problems worse , and 50 % saying that things would be even worse without U.S. involvement .
At a time when many Americans believe their personal information is less secure and are concerned with how companies and the government use their personal data , a substantial share of the public has opted out of using a product or service because of privacy concerns , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 3 - 17 , 2019 . About half ( 52 % ) of U.S. adults said they decided recently not to use a product or service because they were worried about how much personal information would be collected about them . There are some distinctions among certain Americans . For instance , people 's own experience with data breaches in the last 12 months is a factor . Those who said someone attempted to open a line of credit or apply for a loan using their name were more likely than those who did not experience this to say they decided not to use a product or service out of privacy concerns ( 64 % vs. 51 % ) . A similar pattern exists when comparing those who said someone took over their social media or email account without their permission and those who did not experience this ( 63 % vs. 51 % ) . And those who said someone put fraudulent charges on their debit card or credit card were more likely than those who did not experience this to share this concern ( 56 % vs. 51 % ) . Overall , adults who experienced any of these three data breaches were more likely than those who did not to avoid products or services out of privacy concerns ( 57 % vs. 50 % ) .
The new international survey in publics across Europe , the Asia-Pacific region , and in the U.S. , Canada , Brazil and Russia comes as the global landscape for scientific research and innovation has shifted . In the past , the U.S. has had the largest share of spending globally on research and development . Sweden , Germany and Japan have also made sizable investments in research and development over time . But recent years have seen increased investments by Taiwan , South Korea and mainland China .
In every case , the differences between Republicans ' and Democrats ' levels of comfort far exceeds other demographic and even geographic differences . Across all six items , the average partisan gap in levels of comfort is nearly twice as big as the gap between whites and nonwhites and is far larger than the gap between men and women , those living in urban and rural communities , and the gap between younger and older Americans .
National search interest for gun models tends to increase during the holiday shopping season . In each year from 2012 through 2017 , weekly Google search activity for gun models rose an average of 20 % during the week of Thanksgiving and 14 % during the week of Christmas , relative to one week prior . ( Weekly search data are only available after 2012 . ) The FBI 's background check data show a similar trend : Black Friday , for example , has set a single-day record for gun background checks in each of the past three years .
On the eve of Tuesday night 's second presidential debate at Hofstra University , voters are divided as to which candidate they think will do the better job : 41 % say Obama will do better , while 37 % expect Romney to prevail . This stands in stark contrast to expectations prior to the first presidential debate two weeks ago , which voters expected Obama to win by a 51 % -29 % margin .
Partisans have nearly opposite perspectives on whether the news of the past few weeks has been good for Trump or bad for him . A 55 % majority of Republicans say the news over the past couple of weeks has been very or mostly good for the president , while a 57 % majority of Democrats said it has been very or mostly bad for him . ( The survey was mostly conducted before concerns over the coronavirus escalated in the United States . )
Just 15 % say they very closely followed news that broke late in the week about deadly protests in Afghanistan that followed a Florida pastor 's burning of a Koran ; 1 % say this was the news they followed most closely . This story accounted for 1 % of coverage . And 13 % say they followed the NCAA basketball tournament very closely , down slightly from the 18 % that said this in 2010 ; 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the tournament accounted for 1 % of the coverage measured by PEJ .
The racial and ethnic makeup of U.S. prisons continues to look substantially different from the demographics of the country as a whole . In 2017 , blacks represented 12 % of the U.S. adult population but 33 % of the sentenced prison population . Whites accounted for 64 % of adults but 30 % of prisoners . And while Hispanics represented 16 % of the adult population , they accounted for 23 % of inmates .
A 2013 poll we conducted of 40 countries showed that , globally , Indians are among the most likely to say that Islamic extremist groups pose a major threat to their country . Two-in-three Indians said that Islamic extremist groups are a major security concern . Worries about Islamic extremist groups were about the same in Senegal , where 67 % said Islamic extremist groups are a major threat . Only in Italy ( 74 % ) , France ( 71 % ) and Lebanon ( 70 % ) did a slightly higher proportion of adults share the view that Islamic extremist groups are a serious national threat .
The chart above , however , does not contain the most recent federal budget data released by the government . Pasted below is a similar chart from the most recent OMB report — Budget of the U.S. Government : Fiscal Year 2011 ( PDF ) . You can find the chart in the section titled `` Summary Tables , '' and a host of other information about government spending in the full report . While this chart , unfortunately , does not contain the percentages of government spending by category , you can clearly see that the outlays for national defense ( labeled `` security discretionary '' ) are again clearly larger than the outlays for Medicare , net interest and all non-security discretionary spending ( which includes a small slice for education ) .
Catholics in Philadelphia area are more highly educated than U.S. Catholics overall . While nearly half of U.S. Catholics ( 46 % ) have no more than a high school education , only about a quarter of Philadelphia 's Catholics ( 26 % ) are in that category . And Philadelphia Catholics are twice as likely as all U.S. Catholics to have a postgraduate degree ( 20 % vs. 10 % ) . New York-area Catholics , meanwhile , have roughly the same levels of education as all U.S. Catholics .
It 's common for social media users in the U.S. to see content about sexual harassment or assault . Roughly two-thirds ( 65 % ) of U.S. adults who use social media say that at least some of the content they see on these platforms pertains to sexual harassment or assault . This includes 29 % who say that a great deal of what they see on social media is focused on this issue , according to newly released data from a Pew Research Center survey conducted earlier this year . It is common for social media users from various demographic groups to encounter these types of posts . For example , men are as likely as women to report seeing at least some content related to sexual harassment or assault while using social media . In the immediate aftermath of prominent sexual harassment allegations in 2017 , some members of Congress addressed the issue on their official Facebook pages – but there was a large gender gap in doing so . More than four-in-ten members of Congress ( 44 % ) mentioned sexual misconduct in at least one post on their official Facebook accounts between Oct. 1 and Dec. 30 , 2017 , according to a previous Center analysis . Across both political parties , female legislators were far more likely than their male counterparts to raise the issue in their posts .
In a week filled with talk of policy proposals aimed at lifting the nation 's economy from crisis , the public focused most closely on President Obama signing the economic stimulus legislation into law . For more than a third ( 35 % ) of the public , the stimulus was the story they followed more closely than any other news last week . In terms of news coverage , the stimulus dropped from 28 % of the newshole two weeks ago – when lawmakers were negotiating a compromise package – to 9 % of total news last week , according to PEJ . News about action on the stimulus was comparable to coverage of Obama 's plan to help homeowners facing foreclosure , which accounted for 10 % of the newshole last week . The housing proposal , estimated to cost as much as $ 275 billion , attracted the very close attention of 31 % of the public . For one-in-ten Americans , this was the story they followed most closely last week . Reports that General Motors and Chrysler are seeking billions of dollars in new emergency loans from the government was the top story of the week for 8 % of the public . Reports about the automakers ' restructuring troubles and their request for billions in loans accounted for 6 % of the newshole . Meanwhile , debate in Washington over how to use the remaining funds approved last fall for securing the nation 's financial sector attracted less public interest than the other economic policy news . One-in-four ( 25 % ) followed debate over the financial bailout funds very closely and 6 % of the public followed this story more closely than any other last week .
Across 17 countries , a median of 66 % say their country 's current economic relations with China are good . Similarly high numbers ( a median of 64 % ) also rate current U.S. economic relations with their countries favorably . In fact , in most countries polled , majorities say current relations with each of the superpowers are good . For example , 85 % in Australia say U.S.-Australian economic relations are in good shape , while 80 % say the same of Sino-Australian ones . When it comes to whether the U.S. or China is having a positive or negative influence on each country 's economic conditions , though , publics on balance are somewhat more approving of China 's impact . A median of 48 % say China is having a positive impact on economic conditions in their country , compared with 42 % who say the same of the U.S .
There 's an enthusiasm gap . Typically , but not always , Republicans vote at higher rates than Democrats in congressional elections . And at this early stage , that seems likely to happen again , perhaps at an even greater rate than usual . One telling indicator came in December , when the Pew Research Center found that Republicans are much more optimistic about their party 's electoral prospects than Democrats are . Fully 55 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters expect the GOP to do better in 2014 than the party has in recent elections , while only 43 % of Democrats expressed such confidence .
On Iraq , India is the only country other than the U.S. in which a plurality ( 45 % ) believes the removal of Saddam from power has made the world a safer place , and Indians are even less likely than Americans to say the Iraq war made the world more dangerous . Indians , however , do not regret their country 's decision not to use force in Iraq – 75 % say their government did the right thing in abstaining from the U.S.-led coalition .
We asked whether people believe that citizens should be able to make public statements that are offensive to minority groups , or whether the government should be able to prevent people from saying these things . Four-in-ten Millennials say the government should be able to prevent people publicly making statements that are offensive to minority groups , while 58 % said such speech is OK .
People around the globe identify ISIS and climate change as the leading threats to national security , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The survey asked about eight possible threats . While the level and focus of concern varies by region and country , ISIS and climate change clearly emerge as the most frequently cited security risks across the 38 countries polled .
Nearly two-in-ten ( 18 % each ) say they very closely followed news last week about wildfires raging in Arizona and the early stages of the 2012 presidential election . About one-in-ten ( 11 % ) say they followed news about the wildfires most closely , while 9 % say news about their election was their top story . News about the 2012 campaign – focused now on the possible Republican field – accounted for 8 % of coverage , while the wildfires accounted for 4 % . Smaller numbers tracked developments in the Middle East and North Africa . Just 14 % say they followed news about the situation and events in Libya very closely . That 's down from 21 % one week earlier ; 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed news about the anti-government unrest and violence in Yemen very closely . This was the top story for 2 % . News about Libya and Yemen each accounted for 3 % of coverage .
Women are becoming mothers later in life . The median age at which women become mothers in the U.S. is 26 , up from 23 in 1994 . While this change has been driven in part by declines in births to teens , delays in motherhood have continued among women in their 20s . In 1994 , more than half ( 53 % ) of women in their early 40s had become mothers by age 24 ; by 2014 , this share had fallen to 39 % .
In its early surveys about technology use in 2000 , when about half of American adults used the internet , the Pew Research Center 's Internet Project found that about a tenth of those internet users placed phone calls using the internet . In its last reading in late 2012 , when over 80 % of Americans were internet users , the Project found that 30 % of them had placed online phone calls .
While the national news media focused heavily on the 2008 presidential campaign last week , the public divided its interest between the campaign and the Iraq war . More than one-fifth of the national newshole ( 21 % ) was devoted to the presidential campaign , while news about the war — including the situation in Iraq , returning U.S. troops and the Iraq policy debate — drew only about half as much coverage .
In the UK , people who have favorable views of the Labour Party ( 42 % ) or Liberal Democrats ( 40 % ) are more likely to say that the UK has declined in importance than those who have positive views of the Conservatives ( 27 % ) or far-right UKIP ( 25 % ) . This sense of decline has increased among Labour supporters since 2016 , prior to the Brexit vote . In contrast , those who have a favorable opinion of UKIP – the group which largely helped to spearhead the Brexit vote – are much less likely to see the country in decline now than they were in 2016 ( 25 % , down from 46 % ) .
Despite the growth of domestic energy production , public attitudes about energy policies have changed only modestly in recent years . In broad terms , developing alternative energy is viewed as a more important priority than expanding the exploration and production of oil , coal and natural gas . By two-to-one ( 60 % to 30 % ) , more prioritize the development of alternative energy sources than expanded extraction of energy from traditional sources .
Despite their political differences , most Republicans and Democrats stop short of saying that people in the other party do not share their other values and goals beyond politics . Among both parties , about four-in-ten ( 41 % of Republicans and 38 % of Democrats ) say that members of the opposing party `` feel differently about politics , and they probably do n't share many of my other values and goals either . '' ( Note : these questions are based on partisans and do not include those who lean toward the parties ) .
Up to 1.7 million of the 4.4 million unauthorized immigrants ages 30 and under could potentially qualify for a new Obama administration program that goes into effect tomorrow that would shield them from deportation and enable them to apply for temporary but renewable work permits , according to new estimates from the Pew Hispanic Center , a project of the Pew Research Center . The new Pew Hispanic Center estimate of 1.7 million potential beneficiaries is an increase over the estimated 1.4 million potentially eligible unauthorized immigrants reported by the Pew Hispanic Center ( 2012 ) in June , when DHS announced the new policy . Since then , DHS ( 2012 ) has provided more detail on program eligibility , publishing updated guidelines on August 3 , 2012 . As a result , the Pew Hispanic Center estimates that as many as 320,000 more unauthorized immigrants may be eventually eligible for relief from deportation . These additional potential beneficiaries are unauthorized immigrants ages 16 to 30 who came to the U.S. as children , currently do not have a high school diploma and are not enrolled in school . According to the updated eligibility guidelines , if these young people enroll in school by the date of their application , they could become eligible for relief from deportation .
Clear majorities of Democrats and independents who lean Democratic say that , regardless of religious objections , those providing wedding services should treat same-sex couples the same as other customers ( 67 % ) , and that transgender people should be able to use facilities for the gender with which they currently identify ( 68 % ) . In contrast , similar-sized majorities of Republicans and Republican leaners say that wedding-related business owners should be able to refuse service to same-sex couples on religious grounds ( 71 % ) , and that transgender people should be required to use the public restrooms of the gender they were assigned at birth ( 67 % ) .
A plurality in each of six Latin American countries surveyed ( those listed earlier , plus Peru ) say that Cuba will become more democratic over the next several years . A median of 47 % say Cuba will embrace democracy , 27 % say it will remain the same as now , and only one-in-ten say Cuba will become less democratic . In the U.S. , 43 % say that Cuba is bound for more democracy , although nearly half ( 49 % ) say that democracy in Cuba will remain about the same . Only 3 % of Americans say Cuba will become less democratic .
For example , across the eight European nations polled , a median of only 53 % expressed confidence in banks and financial institutions . This trust varied by region : While about half or more in each of the five northern European countries surveyed said they trust banks , only 18 % in Spain , 29 % in Italy and 39 % in France said the same .
As the U.S. prepares to celebrate Independence Day , Americans remain overwhelmingly positive about their nation 's relative standing in the world , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . A majority of the public ( 85 % ) says either that the United States `` stands above all other countries in the world '' ( 29 % ) or that it is `` one of the greatest countries , along with some others '' ( 56 % ) . Only 14 % of Americans say there are `` other countries better than the U.S. '' These views have changed little in recent years .
At the same time , income dynamics among couples have shifted . In 1980 , only 13 % of married women earned more than or about as much as their husbands . By 2000 , the share had risen to 25 % . Today , 31 % of women who are married or cohabiting are contributing at least half of the couple 's total earnings ( including 28 % who earn more than their husband or partner and 3 % who earn about the same amount ) . In 69 % of married or cohabiting couples , the man earns more than the woman , though this is down from 87 % of married couples in 1980 .
Republicans who disapprove of the health care law are divided on whether GOP congressional leaders should modify the health care law or get rid of it entirely . Nearly equal shares say Republican leaders in Congress should focus their efforts on modifying the law ( 42 % ) and focus on getting rid of it entirely ( 44 % ) .
Digital advertising in the U.S. accounted for $ 42.6 billion in revenue in 2013 , an increase of 16 % over 2012 , according to the financial analysis firm eMarketer . But while that digital ad pie is growing , the numbers show that news organizations are competing for an increasingly smaller share of those dollars .
Those in every country surveyed worry about the impact of mobile phones on children . Across these 11 emerging economies , a median of 79 % of adults say people should be very concerned about children being exposed to harmful or immoral content when using their phones . In most countries , half or more say mobile phones and the internet have had a bad impact on children – more than the percentage who say they are concerned about the influence of technology on other facets of society included in the survey , such as politics , local culture and morality . Parents are taking steps to monitor and regulate what their child does online or on their mobile phone . A median of 52 % of parents whose children have a mobile phone say they at times limit how much time their child spends on their phone , and a median of 50 % say they ever monitor what their child is looking at or doing on their mobile phone .
When it comes to their general predictions for the future of human employment and workforce automation , roughly two-thirds of Americans expect that within the next 50 years robots and computers will do much of the work currently done by humans . Some 15 % of Americans expect that this level of automation will `` definitely '' happen , while 50 % think it will `` probably '' happen . On the other hand , one-quarter of Americans expect that this outcome will probably not happen , and 7 % believe it will definitely not happen .
India 's religious minorities have been more likely to migrate internationally . Religious minorities make up a larger share of India 's international migrant population than they do among the nation 's domestic population , according to 2010 Pew Research Center estimates . For example , about 19 % of the Indian international migrant population was Christian , compared with only 3 % of the population in India . Similarly , an estimated 27 % of the Indian international migrant population was Muslim , compared with 14 % of the population in India . The reverse is true for Hindus : Only 45 % of India 's international migrant population was Hindu , compared with 80 % of the population in India .
Immigrants are driving overall workforce growth in the U.S. As the Baby Boom generation heads toward retirement , growth in the nation 's working-age population ( those ages 25 to 64 ) will be driven by immigrants and the U.S.-born children of immigrants , at least through 2035 . Without immigrants , there would be an estimated 18 million fewer working-age adults in the country in 2035 because of the dearth of U.S.-born children with U.S.-born parents . However , immigrants do not form a majority of workers in any industry or occupational group , though they form large shares of private household workers ( 45 % ) and farming , fishing , and forestry occupations ( 46 % ) .
There were wide differences in voting preferences between men and women , whites and nonwhites , as well as people with more and less educational attainment . The gender gap in voting preference is not new , but it is at least as wide as at any point over the past two decades , according to exit polls by the National Election Pool , as reported by CNN . Women favored the Democratic candidate in their district by 19 percentage points ( 59 % to 40 % ) while men voted for the Republican 51 % to 47 % . ( The exit polls offer the first look at the electorate ; the portrait will be refined over time as additional data , such as state voter files , become available ) . The exit polls show divisions across racial and educational groups , too . As was the case in the 2016 presidential election , white men voted Republican by a wide margin ( 60 % to 39 % ) while white women were divided ( 49 % favored the Democratic candidate ; as many supported the Republican ) .
Counties in Southern states have long dominated the list of the fast-growing Hispanic counties . This was especially true from 2000 to 2007 , when eight of the 10 fastest growing counties were in the South . However , since the start of the Great Recession counties in North Dakota have topped the list . Williams County , Stark County and Ward County have all seen their Hispanic populations more than double from 2007 to 2014 ( though from a small base ) . In fact , North Dakota 's statewide Hispanic population nearly doubled to 18,000 in this same time period , making it the state with the highest Hispanic growth rate ( though it ranks 49th among the 50 states and the District of Columbia by Hispanic population ) . 3 Other counties outside the South that are among the 10 fastest-growing include Luzerne County in Pennsylvania , Beadle County in South Dakota , Duchesne County in Utah and Burleigh County in North Dakota . Overall , just three of the top 10 fastest growing counties by Hispanic population since 2007 were in the South .
The results indicate that the first step in the contract tracing process may be challenged by reluctance to answer unknown calls . Only 19 % of Americans report they generally would answer the phone to see who it is ; another 14 % would not answer and ignore a voicemail if one is left . The majority of U.S. adults ( 67 % ) would not answer the phone but would check a voicemail if left .
There are also signs of growing public faith in an economic recovery in some of the largest economies . Roughly four-in-ten Americans ( 40 % ) , Europeans ( 38 % ) and Japanese ( 37 % ) say economic conditions are good in their countries . Such sentiment is up 30 percentage points in Japan from the low point in 2012 ; up 23 points from the low in the United States in 2009 ; and up 23 points from the low in 2013 for the median of five European Union nations . European and Japanese views , while far from positive , have now returned to or exceed pre-financial-crisis levels . But American attitudes , while rebounding , are still more negative than they were in 2007 . This modest recovery in public economic sentiment parallels a gradual pickup in economic growth in many of these economies .
Last month , 36 % of independent voters said they do n't want to see the incumbent in their district reelected . This is as high as in October 1994 ( 34 % ) , shortly before the historic 1994 midterm when Democrats lost control of Congress .
Throughout the seven-year history of the health care law , opinions about it have tended to be more negative than positive – or , less frequently , divided . But in February , for the first time , a majority of the public approved of the law . That remains the case today , with 56 % approving of the law . While that is little changed since February , support has jumped 12 percentage points since April 2016 ( 44 % ) .
With his decision to dramatically increase U.S. overseas spending on the AIDS epidemic , President Bush is addressing a crisis that dominates the concerns of people around the world . The spread of AIDS and other infectious diseases is not just a major crisis in Africa , where the toll from AIDS has been highest . Majorities in 31 of the 44 nations surveyed in the Pew Global Attitudes Project rate the spread of AIDS and other diseases as a major national problem . No fewer than eight-in-ten in every African country surveyed view the spread of AIDS and other diseases as a top national problem . Yet worry is nearly as great in some Central American countries . Fully 93 % in Hondurans say AIDS and other diseases are a major problem in their country . And among Asian nations , broad majorities in India ( 72 % ) , the Philippines ( 71 % ) and Vietnam ( 69 % ) rank disease as a very big problem . Concern about AIDS and infectious diseases is not limited to developing nations . Fully 68 % of French and Italians say their countries are facing major problems in these areas , and 54 % in Japan agreed . By comparison , concern is significantly lower in Germany ( 33 % ) , Great Britain ( 30 % ) and Canada ( 31 % ) . Just over four-in-ten Americans ( 42 % ) say AIDS and infectious diseases are a major problem for the United States . Among Eastern Europeans , majorities in Ukraine and Russia see disease as a major problem in their nations ( 66 % and 63 % , respectively ) , but most people in Poland , Bulgaria and the Czech and Slovak Republics rank it as a moderate problem , at most .
The global economic mood has improved somewhat in recent years , but many are still pessimistic about the future . In the United States , Japan and several European nations , economic confidence has rebounded from the depths of the Great Recession . For instance , 78 % of Germans believe their national economy is in good shape , compared with just 28 % in 2009 . However , in many advanced economies positive assessments of current economic conditions do not translate into optimism for the future . Only 36 % of Germans think that when children in their country grow up they will be financially better off than their parents . Similarly , while nearly two-thirds of Americans say economic conditions are good , only one-in-three are optimistic about the next generation 's financial prospects .
There are big ideological divides among Republican voters . Among the issues that divide possible Republican primary voters is government funding of Planned Parenthood , an issue that caused a bitter fight over a government funding bill among House Republicans . About seven-in-ten conservative Republicans ( 69 % ) say they are more likely to support a candidate who wants to cut off federal support , compared with 28 % of moderate and liberal party members . Other big divides between conservatives and moderates-liberals include whether to raise taxes on the wealthy , how much to compromise with Democrats , and whether to deport all unauthorized immigrants . ( In our sample , 69 % were conservatives and 31 % were moderates and liberals , reflecting relative shares of the party . )
Amid a changing religious landscape that has seen a declining percentage of Americans who identify as Christian , a majority of U.S. Christians ( 54 % ) now say that homosexuality should be accepted , rather than discouraged , by society . While this is still considerably lower than the shares of religiously unaffiliated people ( 83 % ) and members of non-Christian faiths ( 76 % ) who say the same , the Christian figure has increased by 10 percentage points since we conducted a similar study in 2007 . It reflects a growing acceptance of homosexuality among all Americans – from 50 % to 62 % – during the same period . Regardless of age , seven-in-ten Catholics – whose church teaches that homosexual behavior is `` intrinsically disordered '' – say that homosexuality should be accepted by society , a 12-percentage-point increase since 2007 . Similar jumps have occurred among mainline Protestants ( from 56 % to 66 % ) , Orthodox Christians ( from 48 % to 62 % ) and members of the historically black Protestant tradition ( from 39 % to 51 % ) .
The public continued to follow reports about the condition of the U.S. economy closely last week . Still , about a third ( 34 % ) say they followed reports about the swine flu in the U.S. and elsewhere most closely , slightly more than the 30 % that say they followed economic stories most closely . But with the swine flu outbreak apparently not as dangerous as first feared , the share saying they followed news about the virus very closely was down 9 points from the previous week to 34 % . Meanwhile , the economy received the most coverage , filling 16 % of the newshole as measured by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . That number separates out coverage of the April unemployment report and the Obama budget , which together bring total economic coverage to 21 % , according to PEJ . The swine flu , which dominated news coverage the week before with 31 % of coverage , dropped to the second spot – taking up 9 % of the newshole – as fears eased about the immediate spread and potential lethality of the H1N1 virus .
The big question this year will be how many Hispanics , as well as how many in the public overall , turn out to vote . Currently a record number of Hispanics – 23.4 million – are eligible to vote . That 's up from 19.5 million in 2008 . And along with the growing number of potential voters , the actual number of Hispanic voters in presidential – and midterm – elections has been on the rise . A record 9.7 million voted in 2008 .
E-book readers who own tablets or e-readers are very likely to read e-books on those devices—but those who own computers or cellphones sometimes turn to those platforms , too . And as tablet and e-reader ownership levels have risen over the past few years , these devices have become more prominent in the e-reading landscape :
By and large , Americans have confidence that reviews and ratings can be beneficial : Majorities say reviews have at least a somewhat positive effect on consumer confidence ( 88 % think they help a lot or some ) , product safety ( 80 % ) and company accountability ( 78 % ) .
As noted above , there are some indications that Turkish views of the U.S. , and of American foreign policy , are turning less negative . For instance , in 2007 , 79 % opposed U.S.-led efforts to combat terrorism , compared with 55 % in 2009 . Similarly , fewer Turks now see the U.S. as a potential military threat . Just over half ( 54 % ) say the U.S. could pose a military threat to their country some day — a rather striking finding , since Turkey is a longtime NATO ally of the U.S . However , this is down significantly from 76 % two years ago .
Africa is projected to overtake Asia in births by 2060 . Half of babies born worldwide are expected to be born in Africa by 2100 , up from three-in-ten today . Nigeria is expected to have 864 million births between 2020 and 2100 , the most of any African country . The number of births in Nigeria is projected to exceed those in China by 2070 .
Roughly half of Americans ( 52 % ) say Barack Obama 's expression of support for gay marriage did not affect their opinion of the president . A quarter ( 25 % ) say they feel less favorably toward Obama because of this while 19 % feel more favorably .
U.S. births outside of marriage have declined since 2008 , primarily among immigrant women . Over the long term , nonmarital births had been on the rise in the U.S . In 2014 , 40 % of all U.S. births were to unmarried women , up from 21 % of births in 1984 . Among foreign-born women , the share of births that occurred outside of marriage hit a high of 37 % in 2008 and has since fallen steadily . Among U.S.-born women , the share of babies born outside of marriage has held steady over that same period . While foreign-born women have always been less likely to have babies outside of marriage than U.S.-born women , the roughly 10-percentage-point gap in this measure in 2014 ( 42 % vs. 33 % ) is the widest since data became available in 1984 . The decline in unmarried births to foreign-born moms is due in part to their changing regional origins . In recent years , the share of babies born to moms from Latin America has declined , while the share of babies born to moms from regions such as Asia has increased . New foreign-born mothers from Latin America were roughly four times as likely as moms from Asia to be unmarried in 2014 . This shift reflects a larger change in U.S. immigration : Asia recently replaced Latin America as the largest source of new immigrants to the U.S .
In the last three general elections – 2004 , 2006 , and 2008 — young voters have given the Democratic Party a majority of their votes , and for all three cycles they have been the party 's most supportive age group . This year , 66 % of those under age 30 voted for Barack Obama making the disparity between young voters and other age groups larger than in any presidential election since exit polling began in 1972 .
Data from comScore Media Metrix , based on the company 's continuously measured consumer panel , show significant declines in the number of people with peer-to-peer file sharing applications running on their computers . In fact , comScore found that usage of each of the four applications sampled – KaZaa , WinMX , BearShare and Grokster – dropped in November versus one year ago . The declines in the user base of each of these applications from November 2002 to November 2003 were : 15 % for KaZaa , 25 % for WinMX , 9 % for BearShare , and 59 % for Grokster .
With the Democratic convention and McCain 's surprising choice for a vice presidential running mate , public interest in the campaign increased dramatically . Following the convention , fully 45 % were paying very close attention to news about the campaign . This is up from just 31 % who said they were tracking news about the candidates very closely a week before the convention . Some 44 % named the campaign as their most closely followed story of the week – making it by far the public 's top news interest .
In 2014 , before spinning off its publishing properties , Gannett had an operating profit margin of 39 % . Following the 2015 spinoff , Gannett 's broadcasting arm , Tegna , had a similar operating profit margin of 37 % – nearly three times that of its publishing sibling ( 13 % ) , which retained the `` Gannett Company '' name . ( Operating profit , often referred to as `` operating income before depreciation and amortization , '' represents the portion of every dollar in sales that accrues as profits , before paying taxes and investors , and excluding figures that fall outside the company 's typical operations . )
Younger adults stand out as an audience for the campaigns ' social media activity . While all age groups rely on social media communications more than email or websites , young adults do so in the largest numbers . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) of those ages 18 to 29 turn to candidates ' social media accounts , compared with 28 % of those ages 30 to 49 , 19 % of those ages 50 to 64 , and 11 % of those 65+ . Younger adults also are more likely to turn to candidate websites , although the difference is not as prominent .
Young Indians think the BJP is best suited to deal with India 's problems . By roughly three-to-one Indians ages 18 to 29 say the BJP will do a better job combatting corruption , creating jobs , curbing inflation , reducing terrorism , helping the poor and ending political gridlock .
Meanwhile , `` traditional '' roles for mothers and fathers are eroding . Comparing data from 1965 and 2011 shows that mothers these days are spending more hours per week at their jobs , and fathers are spending more time doing housework . Both mothers and fathers are spending more time on child care , though mothers still do more of this than fathers do .
Hispanic children are also fairly likely to be living in this type of situation , due in part to the high share of moms who stay at home . Fully 18 % of Hispanic children are living in a home with a working dad and a stay-at-home mom in their first marriage . The same is true of 15 % of white children .
The annual number of U.S. executions peaked at 98 in 1999 and has fallen sharply in the years since . In 2017 , 23 inmates were executed , according to the Death Penalty Information Center . That 's slightly higher than the year before , when 20 people were executed , but still well below the number of inmates annually put to death in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Just eight states – Alabama , Arkansas , Florida , Georgia , Missouri , Ohio , Texas and Virginia – accounted for all executions in 2017 , compared with 20 states in 1999 .
Roughly eight in ten ( 81 % ) of Millennials have broadband at home , as well as 73 % of Gen X . The Silent Generation and the G.I . Generation are by far the least likely groups to have high-speed internet access , as only 44 % of adults ages 65 - 73 and 20 % of adults over the age of 74 have broadband at home . Of all the age groups , this cohort of adults over 65 are also the least likely to see the lack of home broadband as a major disadvantage , as detailed in our recent report , `` Home Broadband 2010 . ''
Although nearly half of married Americans say shared religious beliefs are very important to a successful marriage , considerably fewer ( 27 % ) say the religion of their spouse was a very important factor in their choosing who to marry . Another 21 % say their spouse 's religion was `` somewhat '' important in their decision to wed. Again , those who are married to someone in the same religious group are more likely than religiously intermarried people to say their spouse 's faith tradition was an important factor in their decision marry them . A majority of those married to someone of the same faith say this was a very ( 36 % ) or somewhat ( 26 % ) important element in their choice , while most of those who are married to someone with a different religious identity ( including people in marriages between a religiously affiliated person and a religious `` none '' ) say their spouse 's religion was not an important factor .
Marriage rates are also more closely linked to socio-economic status than ever before , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Census Bureau data that shows that the education gap in marital status has continued to widen . In 2015 , among adults ages 25 and older , 65 % with a four-year college degree were married , compared with 55 % of those with some college education and 50 % among those with no education beyond high school . Twenty-five years earlier , the marriage rate was above 60 % for each of these groups .
About three-quarters of registered voters ( 76 % ) say Clinton has a great deal or fair amount of respect for women , while just half as many ( 38 % ) say this about Trump , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Oct. 20 - 25 . A majority of voters ( 60 % ) say Trump has little or no respect for women , including 36 % who say he has no respect at all for women . Roughly equal shares of women ( 62 % ) and men ( 58 % ) say Trump has little or no respect for women , but women are far more likely to say he has no respect at all : 43 % say this , compared with 29 % of men . There are no significant gender differences in perceptions of Clinton 's respect for women .
Americans and scientists agree on the value of space exploration , but disagree on the importance of human astronauts . As was the case with the general public , a solid majority ( 68 % ) of members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science ( AAAS ) surveyed by Pew Research said the space station was a good investment .
Within these countries , those who hold favorable views of right-wing populist parties – like the Alternative for Germany ( AfD ) or Italy 's Northern League – are more likely to express confidence in Putin than those who hold unfavorable views of those parties . Just about half of those who give positive ratings to the AfD and 46 % who favor the Northern League say they are confident Putin will do the right thing regarding world affairs . People in the UK and Sweden with positive views of right-wing populist parties are also significantly more likely than those who are unfavorable toward right-wing populist parties to share confidence in Russia 's president . Support for a strong economic relationship with Russia is more widespread than confidence in Putin . In Germany , Italy , France , the Netherlands and the UK , majorities of those who favor right-wing populist parties say that having a strong economic relationship with Russia is more important than being tough with Moscow on foreign policy disputes . Nearly three-quarters ( 72 % ) of those favorable to the AfD and six-in-ten of those favorable to the National Front want a stronger economic relationship with Russia over an adversarial geopolitical one . In the Netherlands , those who view the right-wing Party for Freedom favorably are 17 percentage points more likely to say they prefer having strong economic ties with Moscow to being tough with Russia on foreign policy disputes ; in the UK , the difference between the competing views is an even wider 21 points .
Overall , on the weekends , mothers scale back their time spent on child care by 29 % , compared with the amount of time spent during a week day ( 1.5 hours per day vs. 2.1 hours ) . This is consistent with earlier research by Sayer , Bianchi , and Robinson . A recent Pew Research Center report found that stay-at-home mothers spend more time on child care and housework than working mothers . But the gap in child care is much narrower on the weekends than during the week , and working moms spend almost the same amount of time on housework as stay-at-home moms do on the weekends . Working moms tend to use the weekend to clean up the house : They increase their time spent on this activity by about one hour during the weekends . At the same time , stay-at-home moms take a little break from household chores on weekends . And all mothers , whether working outside the home or not , have more time for leisure activities during weekends .
The way U.S. teens spend their summer hours is changing . Compared with 10 years ago , teens ages 15 to 17 are devoting more of their time in the summer to educational activities and less time to leisure , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of Bureau of Labor Statistics data . Teens now spend an average of 39 minutes a day – more than four hours a week – engaged in homework or classwork during the month of July , compared with 22 minutes a decade earlier . ( This analysis of teens ' summer time use is limited to the month of July to avoid capturing experiences during the very end or beginning of the regular school year . ) Teens now spend about seven and a half hours a day engaged in leisure activities during the summer . While this still accounts for the bulk of their waking hours , it represents a 24-minute decline from a decade ago . This decline has been largely driven by a 22-minute drop in time spent socializing or going to entertainment or sporting events . On the flip side , teens now spend 18 more minutes a day in active pursuits such as playing sports or exercising compared with teens a decade ago . What has not changed substantially is the amount of time they spend on screens in the summer : Teens now devote more than three and a half hours a day to activities such as gaming , watching TV , surfing the web and watching videos – a figure that has ticked down only slightly in the past decade .
Majorities also view the budget deficit ( 65 % ) , foreign policy ( 64 % ) , immigration ( 62 % ) and economic inequality ( 57 % ) as very important to their vote . Two social issues — gay marriage and birth control — rank lower on the importance list ; only about a third of voters say each will be very important to their vote this fall ( 36 % birth control , 32 % gay marriage ) .
While most Americans say it 's good that more women are running for Congress this year , fewer than half say that , if there were more women there , Congress would do a better job of dealing with the country 's problems ( 39 % ) ; the tone of the political debate in Washington would be more respectful ( 36 % ) ; or that there would be more openness and transparency in government ( 34 % ) . About half or more say that the number of women in Congress does n't have much to do with each of these areas .
Between 2005 and 2015 , the number of migrants living in the Middle East more than doubled , from about 25 million to around 54 million , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of data from United Nations agencies . Some of this growth was due to individuals and families seeking economic opportunities . But the majority of the migration surge , especially after 2011 , was a consequence of armed conflict and the forced displacement of millions of people from their homes , many of whom have left their countries of birth .
Other significant partisan shifts in views of Russia have taken place in recent years . For many years , Republicans and Democrats shared similar views about whether Russia posed a major threat to the United States . For example , as recently as April 2016 , 46 % of Republicans and 37 % of Democrats said `` tensions with Russia '' were a major threat to U.S. well-being . By January 2017 , after the presidential election , Democrats had become far more likely than Republicans to view Russia as a threat – though views have changed little since then . When the question was most recently asked in October 2017 , there was a 25-percentage-point partisan gap : 63 % of Democrats and just 38 % of Republicans said they viewed `` Russia 's power and influence '' as a major threat to the well-being of the U.S . Overall , 52 % of Americans saw Russia 's power and influence as a major threat .
Generational differences in attitudes about immigrants have been evident since the mid-1990s , but they too have grown wider . As of March , 76 % of Millennials say immigrants strengthen the country , up from 59 % in early 2013 . Among those in Generation X , there has been an 11-point increase in positive views of immigrants since then ( 60 % now , 49 % then ) . Among both Baby Boomers and those in the Silent Generation , opinion about immigrants grew more positive between 2013 and 2014 , but has become more negative since then . Today , 48 % of Boomers and just 41 % of Silents say immigrants strengthen the country .
Among those who know that most immigrants in the U.S. are here legally , a large 77 % -majority says that undocumented immigrants are no more likely to commit serious crimes than American citizens . By contrast , a smaller share of those who think most immigrants are here illegally ( 53 % ) say undocumented immigrants are no more likely to commit serious crimes . This relationship is seen within both parties . Among Republicans and Republican leaners , most of those who believe the majority of immigrants are in the U.S. legally ( 60 % ) think undocumented immigrants are no more likely to commit serious crimes than American citizens . Among Republicans who incorrectly think most immigrants are here illegally , 52 % say undocumented immigrants are more likely to commit serious crimes , compared with 38 % who say they are not .
Americans are also more likely than Germans to say it is sometimes necessary to use military force . About eight-in-ten Americans believe it is sometimes necessary to use force to maintain order in the world , yet only about half of Germans agree .
The Japanese public is divided in their view of the prime minister : 48 % have confidence in him to do the right thing in world affairs , 50 % lack such confidence . His support has fallen from a peak of 62 % in 2015 and is now at its lowest since the Center first asked the question about Abe in 2007 .
Americans also are largely unaware of the size of the Jewish population in the U.S. , which Pew Research Center estimates at around 2 % . One-in-five U.S. adults ( 19 % ) correctly say that Jews make up less than 5 % of the adult population , while a quarter ( 25 % ) think they make up a bigger share and a clear majority ( 56 % ) say they are unsure . Among Jewish Americans , six-in-ten know that Jews make up less than 5 % of all U.S. adults .
With population growth and increased voter participation among blacks , Latinos and Asians , members of all three groups cast more votes in 2008 than in 2004 . Two million more blacks and 2 million more Latinos reported voting in 2008 than said the same in 2004 . Among Asians , 338,000 more votes were reported cast in 2008 than in 2004 . The number of white voters in 2008 was also up , but only slightly—increasing from 99.6 million in 2004 to 100 million in 2008 .
Americans have mixed views about whether K-12 schools in their area should offer in-person instruction , online instruction or a combination of both as the coronavirus outbreak intensifies across much of the country . And while the public sees health risks to students and teachers as the top factor that should be given a lot of consideration as schools decide whether to reopen , there are wide partisan gaps in these views , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Overall , about three-in-ten U.S. adults ( 28 % ) say that , all things considered , K-12 schools in the area where they live should provide online instruction five days a week in the fall , while a smaller share ( 19 % ) say schools should provide in-person instruction five days a week . The largest share of Americans ( 36 % ) say K-12 schools in their area should provide a mix of online and in-person instruction . Among parents with children who will be enrolled in elementary , middle or high school in the fall , 32 % say K-12 schools in their area should offer online instruction five days a week , while a similar share ( 34 % ) say schools should offer a mix of online and in-person instruction . About a quarter of these parents ( 23 % ) say schools in their area should offer in-person instruction five days a week . White adults are the most likely to say K-12 schools in their area should offer in-person school five days a week : 24 % say this , compared with about one-in-ten Black ( 8 % ) , Hispanic ( 10 % ) and Asian ( 12 % ) adults . Among Black Americans , 43 % say that , all things considered , schools in their area should provide online instruction five days a week , as do 39 % of Hispanic Americans and 35 % of Asian Americans . About a quarter of white Americans ( 23 % ) share this view .
To address this challenge , the Pew Research Center for the People & The Press included cell phone samples in all of its fall election polls , and many other major pollsters took similar steps . All of the Pew Research Center 's election survey reports were based on data from both landline and cell phone interviews , using a methodology described below . The addition of cell phone interviewing had at most a modest effect on estimates of candidate support in most of those individual surveys . When looked at in the aggregate , however , clear patterns emerge .
Confidence in Trump is relatively low across the world , but there are pockets of support . Most Europeans and Latin Americans have little confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs . This includes only 13 % of adults in Germany and 8 % in Mexico . In key EU countries , people express little confidence in Trump . Views of U.S. presidents have changed dramatically since Pew Research Center began asking about this nearly 20 years ago . In Germany , the UK , France and Spain , attitudes toward the U.S. president moved downward during the George W. Bush era , surged in the Obama era and fell again with the election of Trump . And despite a small rebound in support for the U.S. president in the past year , especially in Spain and France , Trump is still much less popular in these EU nations than Obama was during any part of his tenure .
When Pew Research Center began tracking social media adoption in 2005 , just 5 % of American adults used at least one of these platforms . By 2011 that share had risen to half of all Americans , and today 72 % of the public uses some type of social media .
In 2013 , a median of 45 % across 21 emerging and developing countries reported using the internet at least occasionally or owning a smartphone . In 2015 , that figure rose to 54 % , with much of that increase coming from large emerging economies such as Malaysia , Brazil and China . By comparison , a median of 87 % use the internet across 11 advanced economies surveyed in 2015 , including the U.S. and Canada , major Western European nations , developed Pacific nations ( Australia , Japan and South Korea ) and Israel .2 This represents a 33-percentage-point gap compared with emerging and developing nations . For smartphone ownership , the digital divide between less advanced economies and developed economies is 31 points in 2015 . But smartphone ownership rates in emerging and developing nations are rising at an extraordinary rate , climbing from a median of 21 % in 2013 to 37 % in 2015 . And overwhelming majorities in almost every nation surveyed report owning some form of mobile device , even if they are not considered `` smartphones . ''
Yet , when directly asked about the link between Latino identity and speaking Spanish , seven-in-ten ( 71 % ) Latino adults say speaking Spanish is not required to be considered Latino . Even among immigrant Latinos , a majority ( 58 % ) holds this view about Spanish and Latino identity . And among U.S.-born Latinos , higher shares say the same : 84 % of second-generation Latinos and 92 % of third or higher generation Latinos ( the group farthest from their family 's immigrant roots ) say speaking Spanish does not make someone Latino .
Overall , a majority of registered voters ( 57 % ) say they are at least somewhat confident that both in-person and mail-in ballots will be counted as voters intended . One-third say they are confident in how in-person ballots will be counted but not how mail-in ballots will be counted .
Adults who have never been married or who are currently living with a partner are the most likely to say they have ever used an online dating service : 52 % and 46 % , respectively , say this . By comparison , 35 % of Americans who are divorced , separated or widowed say they have ever used a dating site or app , while 16 % of married adults say the same , according to a new analysis of a Pew Research Center survey conducted in October 2019 . The share of Americans who have ever used an online dating platform has gone up across marital status groups , but the increase has been most pronounced among those living with a partner . The share of cohabiting Americans who say they had ever used a dating site or app has roughly tripled from 15 % in 2015 to 46 % today . ( Pew Research Center 's 2015 survey about online dating was conducted via telephone , while the 2019 survey was fielded online through the Center 's American Trends Panel . In addition , there were some changes in question wording between these surveys . Please read the methodology section for full details on how the 2019 survey was conducted . )
Public attention to the major oil leak in the Gulf of Mexico has yet to drop off as significantly as media coverage . Currently , 39 % say they followed news about the leak very closely last week , not much different from the 42 % that said this one week earlier . Still , that is down sharply from 59 % in the July 22 - 25 survey . More than four-in-ten ( 44 % ) say this was the story they followed most closely last week . The oil leak accounted for 3 % of the coverage measured by PEJ , down from 11 % one week earlier . With the underground well largely sealed , coverage has declined greatly since a peak of 44 % of the newshole in mid-June .
Americans are split on the acceptability of using cellphone data to trace people 's movements . About half of Americans ( 52 % ) say it would be at least somewhat acceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 in order to understand how the virus may be spreading , according to the April survey . Still , 48 % of U.S. adults find this practice to be at least somewhat unacceptable . There is far less support when Americans are asked about the government using cellphones to track people 's locations to ensure they are complying with social distancing recommendations : 62 % say this is somewhat or very unacceptable , while just 37 % say it is somewhat or very acceptable .
Even among Catholics , the two groups espouse very different views on some church teachings . For instance , Mexican Catholics are significantly less likely than Mexican-American Catholics to say the Catholic Church should allow priests to marry and women to be ordained as priests . Indeed , just 31 % of Mexican Catholics favor changes to church policy on the priesthood – that is , allowing priests to marry or women to become priests . By contrast , about half or more of Mexican-American Catholics say that priests should have the option to marry , and that the priesthood should be open to women . Mexican-American Catholics who were born in the U.S. are especially likely to support changes to the priesthood , with about two-thirds saying that priests should be able to marry and women should be able to become priests . Whether or not these levels of support for change among the American-born reflect the impact of acculturation , these percentages are roughly comparable to the corresponding shares of U.S. Catholics overall who favor these changes ( 72 % and 68 % , respectively ) .
About two-in-ten of the public ( 19 % ) say they followed news about Obama administration plans to lift the ban on deep-water oil and gas exploration put in place after the BP disaster in the Gulf of Mexico . The story accounted for 3 % of coverage ; 5 % say this was the news they followed most closely . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they very closely followed news about a federal judge 's decision to block enforcement of the government 's `` Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell '' policy concerning gays in the military . This news accounted for 3 % of coverage and 3 % say this was the news they followed most closely .
Overall ratings of Iran remain largely negative across much of the world . Solid majorities in the United States and the European Union have an unfavorable opinion of Iran , including more than eight-in-ten people in Germany ( 91 % ) , France ( 86 % ) , Italy ( 85 % ) and Spain ( 84 % ) .
As with other attitudes about Trump , views on whether he has done enough to distance himself from white nationalism are deeply divided by party . Democrats are more than three times as likely as Republicans to say Trump has not done enough to distance himself from white nationalist groups ( 83 % of Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents vs. 26 % of Republicans and Republican leaners ) .
As has consistently been the case , seniors express the strongest opposition to changing Medicare into a program that offers future participants credits toward purchasing private health insurance coverage . People age 65 and older who have heard about this proposal oppose it by a 55 % to 24 % margin , with fully 46 % saying they are strongly opposed . There also is more opposition than support among people age 50 to 64 , while those under age 50 are more divided . The issue also splits along partisan lines with Democrats opposed to such a change by a 61 % to 28 % margin , while Republicans are more likely to favor it , though by a slimmer 46 % to 32 % margin . Among independents , 49 % are opposed to this sort of gradual shift toward Medicare vouchers , while 34 % are in favor .
Around eight-in-ten motor vehicle thefts ( 79.5 % ) were reported to police in 2019 , making it by far the most commonly reported property crime tracked by BJS . Around half ( 48.5 % ) of household burglary and trespassing offenses were reported , as were 30 % of personal thefts/larcenies and 26.8 % of household thefts .
Views of the president among members of the opposing party have steadily become more negative over time . Our 2014 report on political polarization documented this dramatic growth in partisan divisions over views of presidential job performance . Over the course of Obama 's presidency , his average approval rating among Democrats has been 80 % , compared with just 14 % among Republicans . During Eisenhower 's two terms , from 1953 to 1960 , an average of 49 % of Democrats said they approved of the job the Republican president was doing in office . During Ronald Reagan 's presidency , an average of 31 % of Democrats approved of his job performance . And just over a quarter ( 27 % ) of Republicans offered a positive assessment of Clinton between 1993 and 2000 . But the two most recent presidents – George W. Bush and Obama – have not received even this minimal level of support . Obama 's 46 % job approval in December placed him between George W. Bush ( 30 % ) and Bill Clinton ( 55 % ) at similar points in their second terms in late 2007 and 1999 , respectively . It was also comparable to Reagan 's rating of 49 % in December 1987 .
Taking a `` selfie '' was relatively difficult to pull off before digital phones and cameras made them easy . Not surprisingly , the generation that has taken to them more than any other are the Millennials ( ages 18 to 33 ) , who have grown up with the new digital technologies of the 21st century . They 're the heaviest users of the internet , cell phones and social media sites . And a new Pew Research Center survey finds that 55 % of Millennials have posted a `` selfie '' on a social media site ; no other generation is nearly as inclined to do this . Overall , 26 % of Americans have shared a `` selfie '' on a photo-sharing or social networking site .
Just 14 % followed news about the start of President Obama 's trip to Asia very closely ; 4 % say this was the news they followed most closely . The trip accounted for 2 % of coverage .
Military defense and anti-terrorism defense are two of Republicans ' top spending priorities , and two programs for which they are more likely than Democrats to back greater spending . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 71 % ) would spend more on military defense , compared with 31 % of Democrats . On U.S. anti-terrorism defenses , 61 % of Republicans and 33 % of Democrats say they would increase federal spending .
Political observers have suggested that Prime Minister May called early elections in order to increase the number of Conservative Party seats in Parliament , thus strengthening her ability to negotiate with the EU over Brexit terms . Currently the British government receives mixed reviews from average citizens : 49 % of Brits say they can trust the national government somewhat or a lot , and 48 % say they have little or no confidence in the government to do the right thing for the UK .
Some 68 % of second-generation Latinos consider it very important for future generations to be able to speak Spanish . Third-generation Latinos are equally as likely as their second-generation counterparts to state that retaining the ability to use Spanish is very or somewhat important .
Eight-in-ten Americans say they had heard a lot ( 29 % ) or a little ( 52 % ) about an international health panel warning of a possible link between cell phone use and brain cancer . As is usually the case with health-related stories , women had heard more about this story than had men ( 33 % heard a lot versus 25 % ) .
For example , among those who have heard of CNN but did not get news there , expressions of trust and distrust are roughly equal – 37 % trust and 33 % distrust . ( Fully 80 % of those who heard of it and consumed it say they trust it . ) PBS , however ( trusted by 84 % of those who got news there in the past week ) , was roughly twice as trusted as distrusted outside its core audience ( 34 % v. 16 % ) . Higher levels of distrust were common among non-consumers of news sources that attract more ideologically aligned audiences . Al Jazeera America , with its 71 % left-leaning audience , has considerably more distrust than trust among those who have heard of it but did not get political news there in the past week : 40 % to 14 % . For The Glenn Beck Program ( 87 % of its audience is right-leaning ) , the gap is even greater : 55 % of those who know it but do n't get news there distrust it , while just 12 % trust it .
Freedom of choice , family widely viewed as essential elements of American dream While people differ on the meaning of the American dream , very few – just 11 % of the public – say `` being wealthy '' is essential to their own view of it . By contrast , majorities say `` freedom of choice in how to live '' ( 77 % ) , having a good family life ( 70 % ) and retiring comfortably ( 60 % ) are essential to their view of the American dream . Smaller shares say making valuable community contributions ( 48 % ) , owning a home ( 43 % ) and having a successful career ( also 43 % ) are essential to their view of the American dream , but relatively few ( no more than 9 % ) say these are not important to the American dream .
Support for the transatlantic security partnership is similar in Canada , the other North American member of NATO . Nearly two-thirds of Canadians ( 66 % ) hold NATO in high esteem . Such support has improved by 10 percentage points since 2015 . This rise in support can be seen across demographic groups . Roughly three-quarters of Liberal Party ( 75 % ) and Conservative Party ( 74 % ) adherents have a positive view of the security alliance , as do about two-thirds of New Democratic Party ( 65 % ) loyalists . In Europe , the Poles ( 79 % ) and Dutch ( 79 % ) express the strongest support for NATO among the alliance members surveyed . In 2015 such sentiment stood at 74 % in Poland and 72 % in the Netherlands .
The most optimistic nation is China ( 80 % ) , where the IMF expects growth to be 7.1 % in 2015 . But there are also high expectations in the Latin American nations of Peru ( 77 % ) and Colombia ( 70 % ) , where the IMF foresees growth of 5.8 % and 4.5 % respectively . The same is true in the Asian economies of Vietnam ( 74 % ) and India ( 71 % ) , where the IMF forecasts growth of 5.7 % and 6.4 % respectively ; and in the African countries Senegal ( 73 % ) and Nigeria ( 72 % ) , where the IMF expects growth of 4.8 % and 7.0 % .
Health care providers at hospitals and medical centers around the country are on the front line of care for those ill with the virus . As Americans take stock of early efforts to control the outbreak , 71 % are very or somewhat confident that hospitals and medical centers in their local area can handle patient needs .
As of July 12 , the current federal judiciary overall consists of 725 active judges across 94 district courts , 13 appeals courts , the Supreme Court and one additional court , the Court of International Trade . ( This analysis counts only Article III judges who are included in the Federal Judicial Center 's biographical database , which excludes three district-level courts in U.S . territories . ) Of these judges , 58 % were appointed by Democratic presidents and 42 % were appointed by Republicans , according to the Center 's analysis . But these shares differ considerably by the level of court in question . Five of the nine current Supreme Court justices ( counting Justice Anthony Kennedy , whose retirement takes effect on July 31 ) were appointed by Republican presidents . The appeals courts are roughly evenly populated with appellate judges appointed by Democratic ( 51 % ) and Republican presidents ( 49 % ) . In district courts , 61 % of active judges were appointed by Democratic presidents and just 39 % were appointed by Republicans .
In the U.S. and many other nations , it 's no longer unusual for women to have a first child at age 35 or even 40 . In Canada , this rise in births to older mothers has produced a striking turnabout : For the first time on record , birth rates are higher for women in their late 30s than in their early 20s . According to a new report by Statistics Canada , the switch happened in 2010 and widened in 2011 , when there were 52.3 babies born per 1,000 women ages 35 to 39 and 45.7 per 1,000 women ages 20 to 24 . The agency also reports that birth rates for women in their early 40s now are nearly as high as for teens . This turnabout results from four decades of generally rising birth rates among Canadian women ages 30 and older , and falling birth rates among those younger than 30 . In 2011 , slightly more than half of all Canadian births ( 52 % ) were to women ages 30 and older , up from a quarter ( 24 % ) in 1981 .
But a half century after the Time article was first published , a recent Pew Research Center survey shows that belief in God is strong in the United States . Indeed , according to our 2014 Religious Landscape Study , nearly nine-in-ten American adults say they believe in God or a universal spirit . To be sure , the share of people in the United States who say they believe in the Almighty has dropped a bit recently , from 92 % in 2007 ( when the Center 's first Religious Landscape Study was released ) to 89 % in 2014 . And among the youngest adults surveyed ( born between 1990 and 1996 ) , the share of believers is 80 % .
The public showed more interest in news about flooding along the Mississippi River and the continuing struggles of the U.S. economy than in news about the former IMF leader , Strauss-Kahn . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say they followed news about the flooding most closely , while 15 % say the economy was their top story . Three-in-ten ( 30 % ) say they followed news about the flooding very closely , while a comparable 33 % say they followed news about the economy this closely . Nearly one-in-ten ( 8 % ) say their top story for the week was Obama 's speech about the Middle East and his meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu the next day at the White House . Two-in-ten ( 20 % ) say they followed this news very closely .
In Pew Research Center 's latest survey , three-quarters of Republicans ( 77 % ) say President Obama should agree to a budget deal that includes changes to the Affordable Care Act . More than half ( 54 % ) say it would be unacceptable for Republicans to drop this requirement even if it were the only way to end the shutdown . A similar share of Democrats want a deal with no changes to health care ( 75 % ) and say it would be unacceptable for Obama to give ground if it were necessary to end the shutdown ( 58 % ) . However , when compromise is presented as a general concept with no specific tradeoffs mentioned , the public 's attitude is different . A CBS News poll last week asked if Obama and Democrats should compromise in order to get a budget agreement and also asked if Republicans should compromise . The survey found that three-quarters of the public want the Democrats to compromise and three-quarters say the Republicans should compromise . That includes 61 % of Democrats saying their own party should compromise and 59 % of Republicans saying the GOP should compromise . And , in our recent survey , six-in-ten ( 61 % ) said lawmakers who share their views should be more willing to compromise instead of standing by their principles if it means the shutdown continues ( 29 % ) .
Before Jones ' win in December , only 13 states had split Senate delegations in the current Congress . That was the fewest in the past five decades , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of Senate membership data going back to the 90th Congress ( 1967 - 68 ) . Now , with 14 split delegations , the current Senate is tied with several other Congresses for second-fewest in the past 50 years – there were 14 during most of the 107th Congress and all of the 108th and 109th Congresses , spanning 2001 through early 2007 . But politically divided delegations became more common in the 1960s and ' 70s as decades-old patterns of state-level party dominance began to break down . By the 96th Congress of 1979 - 80 , more than half the states ( 27 ) had split delegations , and from 1969 through 1994 more than 20 states sent split delegations to the Senate . Since then , despite some ups and downs , the trend has been toward more single-party delegations . As of now , 19 states have two Republican senators and 17 have two Democrats .
Young adults are often at the forefront of changing social norms . Adults younger than 30 are most likely to favor a dual-income marriage model ( 72 % ) , over the breadwinner husband-homemaker wife model ( 22 % ) . This is even more true for young women , who are more likely than young men to prefer dual-income marriage ( 78 % vs. 67 % ) . Young adults are also more positive about the impact on families of increasing numbers of women entering the workforce . However , it 's not the case . When we took a closer look at the most recent American Community Survey data , we found that 57 % of young married couples ( where the wife is younger than 30 ) are in a dual-income marriage , compared with 62 % of couples in their 30s and 40s . These young couples also are more likely than older ones to include a breadwinner husband and homemaker wife ( 32 % do ) .
Specific policy debates related to policing also bring out important differences in opinion between black and white officers . Black officers , for instance , are substantially more likely than white officers ( 71 % vs. 46 % ) to say that body cameras – which have been promoted as a way to improve police accountability – would make officers more likely to act appropriately when dealing with the public .
Beyond the shifts in vote preference and party identification , highly educated adults also increasingly have liberal attitudes and values , while there has been less change among those without a college degree . A recent Pew Research Center analysis found that in 2015 , nearly half of college graduates ( 48 % ) held either consistently liberal ( 26 % ) or mostly liberal ( 21 % ) opinions about the role and performance of government , social issues , the environment and other topics . By comparison , just 31 % of those with less education had consistently ( 8 % ) or mostly ( 22 % ) liberal views . Over the past two decades , there has been particularly sharp growth in the share of highly educated adults with consistently liberal attitudes – from 6 % in 1994 to 16 % in 2004 to 26 % in 2015 . Among adults with no college degree , just 8 % had consistently liberal attitudes in 2015 , up from 2 % in 1994 .
10 — Median age at which gay men in America said they first thought they might be gay . 15 — Median age at which they knew for sure . 13 — Median age at which American lesbians said they first thought they might be lesbian .
News about an Atlanta man infected with a dangerous form of tuberculosis drew a large audience last week . The saga of the man 's illness and his travels abroad was the second most closely followed news story of the week – trailing only the situation in Iraq . Nearly a quarter of the public ( 24 % ) paid very close attention to the tuberculosis story and 23 % said it was the story they followed most closely . Public interest was fed by intense media coverage of the story . It was the most heavily covered news story of the week , comprising 12 % of the national newshole . Interest in the situation in Iraq remained high last week . Three-in-ten Americans followed events in Iraq very closely and 25 % said this was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . The public continues to pay closer attention to events in Iraq than to the Iraq policy debate : 20 % followed the policy debate very closely and 7 % listed it as their top story . The news media split its Iraq coverage last week among events on the ground ( 7 % ) and the impact of the war at home ( 4 % ) , including coverage of Cindy Sheehan 's decision to put her anti-war efforts on hold , and the Iraq policy debate ( 4 % ) .
Of these three issues , Americans are most in agreement when it comes to military drones that target extremists in Pakistan and elsewhere . Among those we surveyed about these anti-terrorism policies , half say the policy has made the U.S. safer . Just 14 % believe drones have made the U.S. less safe and 27 % say they have not made a difference .
A key question that news organizations face , particularly during intense periods like election years , is to what degree journalists should present the facts with some interpretation , giving their audience guidance in navigating all the information that comes at them . A majority of U.S. adults ( 59 % ) reject the idea of adding interpretation , saying that the news media should present the facts alone , a recent Pew Research Center survey found . Four-in-ten favor adding some interpretation to the facts . The survey of 4,132 adults on the Center 's nationally representative American Trends Panel was conducted Sept. 27-Oct. 10 , before Election Day . There are substantial partisan differences over whether journalists should include interpretation in their stories . Registered voters who supported Trump for president favored a `` just the facts '' approach by more than two-to-one , with only 29 % saying the news media should add interpretation . Clinton supporters , on the other hand , are evenly split on the issue , with half against interpretation and half favoring it . This may be linked to a perception among Republicans that coverage of their candidate had been too tough . Among Republicans , 46 % thought coverage of Trump had been too tough , while only three-in-ten Democrats thought the same of coverage of Clinton , according to Pew Research Center 's mid-September survey .
As governments around the world turn to technology to help fight the spread of COVID-19 , a majority of Americans are skeptical that tracking someone 's location through their cellphone would help curb the outbreak . At the same time , the public holds mixed views on when – and if – this type of monitoring is acceptable . Six-in-ten Americans say that if the government tracked people 's locations through their cellphone it would not make much of a difference in limiting the spread of the virus , according to a new Pew Research Center survey of U.S. adults conducted April 7 - 12 , 2020 . Smaller shares of Americans – about four-in-ten – believe this type of monitoring would help a lot ( 16 % ) or a little ( 22 % ) in limiting the spread of COVID-19 . Across demographic groups , roughly half or more believe this type of tracking would have little impact on slowing the COVID-19 outbreak . Still , Democrats ( 46 % ) and independents ( 42 % ) are more likely than Republicans ( 31 % ) to say that if the government tracked people 's locations through their cellphone during the outbreak it would help at least a little to limit the spread of the virus .
For example , three-in-ten conservative Republican voters say there is a good chance they would vote for Ted Cruz ( 30 % ) or Scott Walker ( 30 % ) , while just 10 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say this about either man . About twice as many GOP conservatives ( 25 % ) as moderates and liberals ( 13 % ) say there is a good chance they would support Ben Carson . There is a narrower gap in support for Jeb Bush : 25 % of conservative Republican voters and 17 % of moderate and liberal Republican voters say there is a good chance they would vote for the former Florida governor . Chris Christie is relatively well known among both conservative and moderate and liberal Republican voters , but draws little support from either group . Just 11 % of conservative Republicans and 6 % of moderate and liberal Republicans say they see a good chance of supporting Christie ; 40 % and 37 % , respectively , say there is no chance they would vote for the New Jersey governor .
The 2007 Pew survey found that in countries where people generally trust one another , there is also more confidence in the integrity of political leaders . As the figure below shows , the relationship between trust and corruption resembles the one between trust and crime . The percentage of people rating corrupt political leaders as a very big problem tends to be lower in countries that have high levels of trust such as Sweden , Canada , and Britain ( the correlation coefficient is -.54 ) . On the other hand , in nations such as Nigeria and Lebanon , trust is rare and concerns about political corruption are widespread . Again , there are outliers . Kuwait is both a low trust and low corruption society . Indonesia is a high trust , high corruption country . And the Swedes are once again even less concerned about corruption than their high score on the trust measure would predict ( the question about political corruption was not asked in China , the only country to top the Swedes on trust ) . Meanwhile , Americans — who have witnessed more than a few high profile political scandals over the last few years — were slightly more concerned about corrupt politicians than would have been expected , based on their reasonably high degree of social trust . Eastern Europeans also tend to be more worried about corruption than one might anticipate given the level of social trust in the region . In all six Eastern European nations included on the survey , more than half say the issue of corrupt political leaders is a very important problem facing their country . Concern runs especially high in the Czech Republic , where nearly eight-in-ten ( 78 % ) see political corruption as a very important problem — only Nigerians express more concern about this issue .
Since 1999 , an increasing number of Republicans express the view that a person has an obligation to fight , while Democrats have moved in the opposite direction . By 66 % to 27 % , Republicans said that people should fight for the country , right or wrong ; Democrats , by a comparable margin said it is acceptable to refuse to fight in a war that one sees as morally wrong .
As of 2016 , 15 % of 25- to 35-year-old Millennials were living in their parents ' home . This is 5 percentage points higher than the share of Generation Xers who lived in their parents ' home in 2000 when they were the same age ( 10 % ) , and nearly double the share of the Silent Generation who lived at home in 1964 ( 8 % ) . It does n't appear that a lack of jobs is keeping Millennials at home . As of the first quarter of 2016 ( when the living arrangements data were collected ) , only 5.1 % of older young adults were unemployed , down from 10.1 % in the first quarter of 2010 . Yet the share of 25- to 35-year-olds living at home rose during that span , increasing from 12 % in 2010 to 15 % in 2016 .
Among eight other historic events tested , only one – the assassination of John F. Kennedy in 1963 – is a vivid memory for virtually all of those old enough to remember the tragedy : 95 % of Americans who were born in 1955 or earlier , and who would have been eight or older in 1963 , say they can recall exactly where they were or what they were doing . That is virtually unchanged from 1999 ( 96 % ) . Both 9/11 and Kennedy 's assassination stand apart from other developments , including some recent events . For instance , 81 % of adults recall where they were in May when President Obama announced that Osama bin Laden had been killed by U.S. forces . The other national event that resonated as widely as 9/11 and Kennedy 's death among those old enough to recall is Japan 's attack on Pearl Harbor . The Pew Research Center 's 1999 study found that 89 % of those who were eight or older at the time of Pearl Harbor were able to recall exactly where they were or what they were doing when they first heard of the attack .
New York , Los Angeles and Washington , D.C. , are the financial , entertainment and political capitals of the United States – and that may help explain why they are home to a disproportionately large share of the nation 's newsroom employees . About one-in-five newsroom employees ( 22 % ) live in these three metro areas , which , by comparison , are home to 13 % of all U.S. workers , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data covering the period from 2013 to 2017 . Long known as the media capital of the world , New York , at 12 % , has the greatest share of all U.S. newsroom employees – those who work as reporters , editors , photographers and videographers in the newspaper , broadcasting and internet publishing industries . This is more than twice the share living in the Los Angeles and Washington , D.C. , metro areas , which are each home to 5 % of the nation 's newsroom employees .
Overall , 38 % of Republicans say the federal government 's policies are influenced a great deal by evidence from public health experts , compared with only 17 % of Democrats . Democrats are at least three times as likely as Republicans to say public health experts do not influence the federal government 's policies related to the coronavirus too much or at all ( 36 % vs. 10 % ) . There are differences in perspective on this issue between younger and older Republicans . About half of Republicans in the Baby Boomer or older generations ( 47 % ) say the federal government 's policies on the spread of the coronavirus are influenced a great deal by public health experts , while only 22 % of younger Republicans in the Millennial or Gen Z generations say the same .
Fourteen percent ( 14 % ) of internet users – or 11 % of all American adults – read a blog dealing with community issues in the twelve months preceding our survey , making community blogs as common as email communications as a way to keep up with neighborhood events . In contrast to face-to-face , telephone and email interactions , neighborhood blogs are relatively popular with young adults : 16 % of online 18 - 29 year olds read a blog dealing with community issues , similar to the rate for those ages 30 - 64 ( 15 % ) and significantly higher than internet users 65 and older ( 9 % of whom have done so ) . Community blogs are particularly popular among residents of urban areas , as 17 % of wired urbanites read a blog dealing with community issues . This is significantly higher than the 11 % online rural residents who read such blogs . Online whites ( 14 % ) , blacks ( 18 % ) and Hispanics ( 13 % ) are equally likely to read community blogs , and there is relatively little variation on this question based on income and education .
For example , publics in Latin America and Eastern Europe – where per capita GDP has risen markedly in recent years – rate their lives and national conditions far more favorably than they did in Pew 's 2002 wave of interviewing . The same is true in China and India , both of which have experienced sizable gains in real income , and where publics are substantially happier today . The pattern is less pronounced , however , elsewhere in Asia . And in sub-Saharan Africa , where per capita GDP has increased in many nations , overall satisfaction measures are up modestly , at best . Overall , the `` middle income '' countries are experiencing the most economic growth , the largest gains in personal well-being , and the greatest increases in national satisfaction . This group of countries includes a number of Eastern European countries , as well as nations like Argentina , which has rebounded from a devastating economic crisis earlier in the decade , and China , where soaring growth rates have led to increased life satisfaction and sky-high ratings for the national economy . These countries are now enjoying the fruits of economic globalization , and they continue to express solid support for many of the key features of a globalized economy – international trade , multinational corporations , and free markets .
Over the 50 presidential elections that have taken place since 1824 , the first election for which statewide popular votes were both determinative and reasonably reliably reported , there have been 187 instances in which a state was decided by less than 2 percentage points ( our definition of `` close '' for the purposes of this post ) . That 's an average of 3.74 states with close races per election .
According to `` The Infinite Dial '' report by Edison Research and Triton Digital , the share of the public listening to online radio continues to grow . As of early 2019 , 67 % of Americans ages 12 and older had listened to online radio in the past month , while 60 % had listened in the past week . This is up slightly from 64 % and 57 % , respectively , in 2018 , continuing online radio 's steady year-over-year growth .
With high fuel prices and instability in the Middle East , Americans are increasingly concerned about the nation 's energy situation . In January , 58 % rated `` dealing with the nation 's energy problem '' a top priority , up from just 47 % a year ago and 40 % in January of 2003 . And while finding new energy and protecting the environment are often seen as conflicting goals , the public makes no such distinction . In concert with rising energy worries , Americans are becoming increasingly anxious about the environment . In January , 57 % rated `` protecting the environment '' a top priority , up from 49 % a year ago and just 39 % in 2003 .
A subsequent survey in summer 2019 found widespread discontent on a number of other questions . Around two-thirds or more of Lebanese adults said they are pessimistic about the future of their country 's political system ( 76 % ) ; disagree that the government is run for the benefit of all people ( 72 % ) ; are dissatisfied with how their country 's democracy is working ( 67 % ) ; and do not think most elected officials in their country care what people like them think ( 66 % ) .
On border security , timing is everything , but there are divisions within the Republican ranks . Republicans and Democrats are on opposite sides of the issue when it comes to whether securing U.S. borders must precede allowing undocumented immigrants to seek legal status . A majority ( 56 % ) of Republicans say improved border security must come first , while 60 % of Democrats say providing a path to legal status can occur while border security is being beefed up . Fully 67 % of Tea Party Republicans say undocumented immigrants should only be able to apply for legal status after effective control over the border has been established . Among non-Tea Party Republicans only 47 % express this view .
Consistent partisans are also substantially more likely than others to say they talk about politics at least a few times a week . About half of consistent Republicans ( 49 % ) and Democrats ( 52 % ) say they talk about politics every day or a few times a week . That compares with only about third of Republicans ( 29 % ) and Democrats ( 35 % ) who have shifted their party affiliation or leaning over the past two years .
Similarly , the Spring 2012 Global Attitudes Survey found that more than half of Americans ( 54 % ) lacked confidence in Putin to do the right thing in world affairs ; 28 % expressed confidence in the Russian president , while 18 % did not offer an opinion .
Today 's moms work more hours outside the home and spend far less time on housework than they did 50 years ago . They also spend more time with their children than mothers did in the 1960s , and about twice as much time as today 's fathers do . For their part , dads now spend more time on housework and child care than they used to , but they have n't caught up to moms .
Pew found voters gave Obama high marks for how he ran his campaign . Fully 75 % of voters gave his campaign an A or B grade , the highest percentage any candidate has received since Pew began asking voters to grade presidential campaigns in 1988 . In fact , on average , a winning candidate has received an A or B grade from about 55 % of voters the past five presidential cycles .
Republicans and Democrats in the ideological middle within their respective parties ( that is , moderate/liberal Republicans and moderate/conservative Democrats ) fall somewhere in between in terms of how they see human activity influencing climate change . For instance , 35 % of moderate or liberal Republicans say human activity has a great deal of impact on climate change , while roughly two-thirds of moderate or conservative Democrats ( 64 % ) see it as a major contributor .
Our most recent survey on the issue , conducted July 26 - 29 , 2012 , shortly after a gunman killed 12 people at a movie theater in Aurora , Colorado , found that 47 % said it was more important to control gun ownership , while 46 % said it was more important to protect the rights of Americans to own guns . Opinions were largely unchanged from April 2012 , when 45 % prioritized gun control and 49 % gun rights . Opinion about gun control has been divided since early 2009 , shortly after Barack Obama 's election . From 1993 through 2008 , majorities had said it was more important to control gun ownership than to protect gun rights . In May 1999 , a month after the shooting at Columbine High School , 65 % said it was more important to control gun ownership while 30 % said it was more important to protect gun rights . The previous measure , from six years earlier ( December 1993 ) found that 57 % prioritized gun control while 34 % prioritized gun rights .
The public paid limited attention to last week 's congressional hearings on Benghazi . Fewer than half ( 44 % ) of Americans say they are following the hearings very or fairly closely , virtually unchanged from late January when Hillary Clinton testified . Last October , 61 % said they were following the early stages of the investigation at least fairly closely .
From 2006 to 2008 , internet use among Latino adults rose by 10 percentage points , from 54 % 1 to 64 % . In comparison , the rates for whites rose four percentage points , and the rates for blacks rose only two percentage points during that time period . Though Latinos continue to lag behind whites , the gap in internet use has shrunk considerably .
And with this turnaround , British support for remaining in the European Union has picked up . By 50 % to 41 % , the British now want to remain in the EU . In 2013 the public was divided , with 46 % wanting to stay and an equal share wanting to leave .
Overall , roughly one-third of Americans who identify as Republican or as Republican-leaning independents do not agree with their party on abortion ( 35 % ) , including 12 % who say they agree with the Democratic Party on abortion and 23 % who say they do not agree with either party . Among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents , three-in-ten do not agree with their party on abortion , including 7 % who say they agree with the GOP and 22 % who say they do n't agree with either party . ( The same 2019 survey found that roughly a fifth to a third of Americans do n't agree with their party on issues including policies to deal with the economy , health care and illegal immigration . )
The nation 's Hispanic population has long been characterized by its immigrant roots . But as immigration from Latin America slows , the immigrant share among each of the nation 's Hispanic origin groups is in decline , according to a new Pew Research Center analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data . This report explores data of the 14 largest Hispanic origin groups , unless otherwise noted . The foreign-born share of Salvadorans , for example , fell from 76 % in 2000 to 59 % in 2013—the largest percentage point decline of any of the six largest Hispanic origin groups . Similarly , Dominicans , Guatemalans , and Colombians all had decreases of over 13 percentage points in their foreign-born shares over the same period . Mexicans , the nation 's largest Hispanic origin group , also saw a decline , though it was only 8 percentage points since 2000 . A decline is underway among smaller Hispanic origin groups , too ( see Appendix Table A1 ) . Overall , the share of the Hispanic population that is foreign born has decreased from 40 % in 2000 to 35 % in 2013 . Despite falling immigrant shares across all Latino origin groups , fast Latino population growth has led to continued growth in the number of Latino immigrants ( though growth has slowed in recent years ) . Among all Latinos , there were 14.1 million immigrants in 2000 . By 2005 , that number reached 16.8 million , and by 2013 , there were 19 million Latino immigrants in the U.S . The same pattern is present among all Latino origin groups , though for three—Ecuadorians , Mexicans and Nicaraguans—the number of immigrants has declined since 2010 ( for details , see Appendix Table A2 ) .
In 2014 , just 14 % of children younger than 18 lived with a stay-at-home mother and a working father who were in their first marriage . This marks a dramatic decline from the height of the postwar baby boom , when these kinds of households were more common .
Despite these challenges , most Americans ( 65 % ) expect the census to be somewhat ( 55 % ) or very ( 10 % ) successful in producing an accurate national population count , according to a Pew Research Center survey in November . In June , 68 % said so , as did 75 % in a March survey .
Roughly four-in-ten ( 39 % ) followed the floods in the Midwest very closely , up from 34 % a week earlier . The floods were the public 's top story last week with twice as many people citing the floods as their most closely followed story than cited the presidential campaign ( 38 % vs. 19 % ) . By contrast , news organizations devoted somewhat more coverage to the campaign than to the flooding . Still , public interest in Midwestern flooding is far lower than it was for the region 's historic 1993 floods . In August 1993 , nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 65 % ) followed the flooding very closely .
Americans widely support the `` right to be forgotten , '' allowing people to remove personal information about themselves from public online searches or databases . When the Center asked Americans in June 2019 about medical data specifically , about seven-in-ten U.S. adults ( 69 % ) said all Americans should have the right to have medical data collected by a health provider permanently deleted by the people or organizations who have that information . White adults , older Americans and those with higher levels of educational attainment and household incomes were more likely to say all Americans should have the right to have this information permanently deleted . For example , 77 % of those with a college education or more said this should be a right for all Americans , compared with smaller shares of those with some college education ( 70 % ) or a high school diploma or less ( 61 % ) .
In that era a sharp decline in confidence in U.S. military leadership accompanied growing American disillusionment with the war in Southeast Asia . In February 1966 , a Harris poll found more than six in ten ( 62 % ) expressing a great deal of confidence in `` people running the military . '' By March 1973 , a NORC poll found that number had fallen to 32 % .
In the high-stakes battle over replacing Justice Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court , a majority of Americans ( 56 % ) say the Senate should hold hearings and vote on President Obama 's choice to fill the vacancy . About four-in-ten ( 38 % ) say the Senate should not hold hearings until the next president selects a court nominee . Most of those who want the Senate to hold off consideration of a Supreme Court nominee say they would not change their minds about this , regardless of whom Obama selects to replace Scalia . About a quarter of the public ( 26 % ) favors the Senate delaying action on the court vacancy , and say they would not be swayed from this view no matter whom Obama nominates . Just 10 % of the public favors holding off action on the court vacancy , but say they may change their minds , depending on whom Obama nominates .
The national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted April 18 - 21 among 1,002 adults , finds that the public is evenly divided over whether there is more the government can do to prevent attacks like the one in Boston : 49 % say there is more the government can do to prevent such attacks , but nearly as many ( 45 % ) say there is not much more that can be done . The steps the government has taken since 9/11 are generally seen as having made the country safer . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) say steps taken by the government since Sept. 11 , 2001 have made the country safer , while 35 % say these actions have not had much of an effect .
And economists are also divided on just how to define and measure inequality . As Federal Reserve economist Arthur Kennickell wrote in a 2009 paper , `` ‘ Inequality ' may seem a simple term , but operationally it may mean many different things , depending on the point of view . '' Most researchers agree that wealth is more unevenly distributed than income , while consumption is less concentrated at the upper end than either wealth or income .
The new national survey by the Pew Research Center and USA TODAY , conducted Dec. 3 - 8 among 2,001 adults , finds that 55 % of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters expect the GOP to do better than it has in recent elections , 33 % think it will do about the same , while just 5 % say it will do worse . Democrats and Democratic leaners are less confident : 43 % say the party will do better than in recent elections , 43 % about the same and 9 % worse . At this point in the 2006 election , Democrats were highly confident of victory . In December 2005 , 64 % of Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters expected their party to do better in the 2006 midterms than in other recent elections ; just 16 % of Republican voters felt the same way about the GOP 's prospects .
As might be expected , people 's opinions about whether they would gain or lose influence under the incoming president were very different eight years ago . Core GOP groups , especially Republicans ( 60 % ) and Bush voters ( 59 % ) said they would gain influence ; by contrast , 47 % of Gore voters and nearly as many Democrats ( 44 % ) said they would lose influence .
A number of personal characteristics play a role in people 's levels of social trust . Older people , whites and those with higher household incomes or higher levels of education are more likely than others to give trusting answers . These patterns mirror those found in 2018 . Statistical modeling shows that people 's overall level of social trust is an independent predictor , above and beyond preexisting demographic differences , of how they are reacting to the pandemic . Some 49 % of low trusters say they occasionally or more often have felt nervous , anxious or on edge in the past seven days , compared with 39 % of high trusters and 41 % of medium trusters . Additionally , low trusters are roughly twice as likely as high trusters to report that they have had frequent trouble sleeping ( 41 % vs. 22 % ) or have experienced feelings of depression ( 33 % vs. 16 % ) at least occasionally during this time . A quarter of low trusters ( 27 % ) say they have somewhat frequently or more often felt lonely , in contrast to 12 % of high trusters who have felt lonely at that rate during the past seven days . Finally , six-in-ten low trusters ( 59 % ) say they have rarely or only some of the time felt hopeful , compared with 39 % of high trusters who have felt hope that rarely .
Love tops the list of Americans ' reasons to marry . About nine-in-ten Americans ( 88 % ) cited love as a very important reason to get married , ahead of making a lifelong commitment ( 81 % ) and companionship ( 76 % ) , according to a 2013 Pew Research Center survey . Fewer said having their relationship recognized in a religious ceremony ( 30 % ) , financial stability ( 28 % ) or legal rights and benefits ( 23 % ) were very important reasons to marry .
Overall the American public tends to see the effects of science on society in a positive light . Fully 79 % of citizens say that science has made life easier for most people , while just 15 % say it has made life more difficult . However , the balance of opinion is slightly less positive today than in 2009 when positive views outpaced negative ones by a margin of 83 % to 10 % . Similarly , a majority of adults says the effect of science on the quality of U.S. health care , food and the environment is mostly positive as was also the case in 2009 . The share saying that science has had a negative effect in each area has increased slightly . For example , 79 % of adults say that science has had a positive effect on the quality of health care , down from 85 % in 2009 while negative views have ticked up from 10 % in 2009 to 18 % today .
As President-elect Donald Trump prepares to take office , the public views one of his signature campaign promises – the construction of a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border – as a less important goal for immigration policy than several other objectives , such as cracking down on visa overstays . Asked about eight possible goals for U.S. immigration policy , majorities rate each one as important , except one : Only 39 % view building a wall along the U.S.-Mexican border as a very or somewhat important goal . Most Americans ( 58 % ) say it is important to increase the number of deportations of people in the U.S. illegally , another of Trump 's campaign proposals that he has emphasized since winning the election . The latest Pew Research Center estimate puts the number of unauthorized immigrants in the U.S. at 11.1 million . The most widely supported goal for U.S. immigration policy is to establish stricter policies to prevent people from overstaying visas . Nearly eight-in-ten ( 77 % ) view this as an important goal , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted Nov. 29-Dec. 12 among 4,138 adults on the nationally representative American Trends Panel .
About half ( 51 % ) say immigrants today strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents , while 41 % say immigrants are a burden because they take jobs , housing and health care . The share saying that immigrants strengthen the country has declined six percentage points since last year .
Americans have low trust in information from social media . Just 5 % of web-using U.S. adults have a lot of trust in the information they get from social media , nearly identical to the 4 % who said so in 2016 . This level of trust is much lower than trust in national and local news organizations , and in information coming from friends and family . In fact , in a separate study focusing on science news about twice as many social media users distrust science posts on social media as trust them ( 52 % compared with 26 % , 21 % of social media users do not see any science posts ) . While social media is a common pathway to news , when people follow news links , source recognition is lower for news accessed through these platforms than it is when the link comes from a news organization . When news links came directly from a news organization 's emails , texts or alerts , the individual could name a source for that link 78 % of the time . That far outpaced source recall when a link came through social media ( 52 % of such instances ) or a friend 's email or text ( 50 % ) .
Although general fears about radiation exposure have subsided somewhat , worries persist about the safety of foods produced near the Fukushima nuclear plant . Fully 76 % of Japanese believe produce from the Fukushima area is not safe , while just 19 % disagree . Worries about contaminated food are more prevalent among Japanese with at least some university education ( 84 % ) than those with a high school education or less ( 71 % ) .
A majority of Israelis ( 61 % ) approve of Netanyahu 's policies toward the U.S. , while 28 % disapprove . Israeli Jews who describe themselves as traditional , religious or ultra-orthodox are especially likely to approve of Netanyahu 's policies ( 75 % approve ) , but most secular Jews also approve ( 63 % ) . Israeli Arabs are more critical of the prime minister 's policies toward the U.S. ; just 22 % approve and 59 % disapprove of Netanyahu 's policies toward the U.S . In the Palestinian territories , half approve of Abbas ' policies toward the U.S. , and 38 % disapprove . Views of the way Hamas is handling the U.S. are more mixed ; 39 % approve and 46 % disapprove . Opinions about Hamas ' policies toward the U.S. are similar in the West Bank and Gaza .
Among occupations , which refer to the kind of work people do on the job , immigrants have the largest presence in farming , where unauthorized ( 22 % ) and legal immigrants ( 21 % ) accounted for more than four-in-ten workers as of 2017 . In construction jobs , unauthorized immigrants were 15 % of all workers , more than three times their share among all U.S. workers . By contrast , legal immigrants accounted for 13 % of workers in construction , similar to their share among workers overall . Compared with their share of the overall U.S. workforce , unauthorized immigrants had a larger presence in production ( 8 % ) , service ( 8 % ) and transportation and material moving ( 6 % ) . Meanwhile , the share of legal immigrants in these occupations was similar to their share among the U.S. workforce overall .
Favorable views of the U.S. in Indonesia have fallen sharply over the past three years . In 2018 , 42 % of Indonesians said they had favorable views of the U.S. , down 6 percentage points from the previous year and 20 points from 2015 , when Barack Obama was still president .
Broad agreement on the dangers of `` heated or aggressive '' rhetoric by political leaders . A substantial majority ( 78 % ) says `` heated or aggressive '' language directed by elected officials against certain people or groups makes violence against them more likely . This view is more widely shared among Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents than Republican and Republican leaners .
Blacks have long outnumbered whites in U.S. prisons . But a significant decline in the number of black prisoners has steadily narrowed the gap over the past decade , according to new data from the Bureau of Justice Statistics . At the end of 2017 , federal and state prisons in the United States held about 475,900 inmates who were black and 436,500 who were white – a difference of 39,400 , according to BJS . Ten years earlier , there were 592,900 black and 499,800 white prisoners – a difference of 93,100 . ( This analysis counts only inmates sentenced to more than a year . ) The decline in the black-white gap between 2007 and 2017 was driven by a 20 % decrease in the number of black inmates , which outpaced a 13 % decrease in the number of white inmates . The gap between white and Hispanic imprisonment also narrowed between 2007 and 2017 , but not because of a decrease in Hispanic prisoners . Instead , the number of white prisoners fell while the number of Hispanic inmates increased slightly . At the end of 2017 , there were 100,000 more white inmates than Hispanic inmates ( 436,500 vs. 336,500 ) , down from an inmate difference of 169,400 in 2007 ( 499,800 white inmates vs. 330,400 Hispanic inmates ) .
In the same year , blacks made up 17 % of the DOD active-duty military – somewhat higher than their share of the U.S. population ages 18 to 44 ( 13 % ) . Blacks have consistently been represented in greater shares among enlisted personnel ( 19 % in 2015 ) than among the commissioned officers ( 9 % ) . The share of the active-duty force that is Hispanic has risen rapidly in recent decades . In 2015 , 12 % of all active-duty personnel were Hispanic , three times the share in 1980 .
By 66 % t0 30 % more Americans say they are dissatisfied than satisfied with the way things are going in the country today .
A similar partisan pattern emerged in the U.S . Although the majority of Americans said they do n't have confidence in elected officials , more Republicans and Republican-leaning independents ( 36 % ) than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 17 % ) had confidence .
What a difference a year , and possibly an election , makes . Nearly six-in-ten people in the United States ( 58 % ) say the economic situation is very or somewhat good , according to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted Feb. 16-March 15 . Last spring , 44 % of the American public described the economy as good . This is the most positive assessment of U.S. economic conditions since 2007 , and only the second time that half or more of those surveyed have given the economy a thumbs-up . Driving the latest increase is a jump among Republicans over the past year . The 14-percentage-point rise in overall public opinion about the economy since last year is the largest one-year improvement in public sentiment about economic conditions in the history of this survey . The current rosy assessment stands in stark contrast to where opinion stood immediately after the beginning of the financial crisis in spring 2008 , when just 20 % said economic conditions were good .
On a day-to-day basis , interest in online campaign news peaked around Election Day . Fully 12 % of Americans went online for political news on November 7 , and 18 % went online the day after the election — a more than fourfold increase in the normal traffic for political news . The continuing drama of the post-election story and its fast-moving pace kept people online for election news in the week following November 7 . Between 11 % and 15 % of all Americans followed the story online on any given day during this period . The current poll was conducted as part of a larger effort to track Internet use over time . The Pew Internet & American Life Project has been conducting a daily tracking poll almost continually since March 1 , 2000 , measuring online usage . The level of campaign news consumption remained remarkably stable from March through October ; during this period , roughly 3 % to 5 % of Americans got campaign news online on a typical day . This pattern was not influenced dramatically by important primary contests in March , nor by the conventions or the fall debates .
In addition to government-imposed restrictions on religion , sub-Saharan Africa also saw the largest increase in social hostilities by private individuals or groups of any region in the Center 's analysis . The most prominent of these social hostilities involved a spate of suicide bombings by Boko Haram outside its home base of Nigeria . Between July and December 2015 in neighboring Cameroon , for instance , there were 37 reported suicide bombings attributed to Boko Haram .
It 's worth noting that birth rate figures only include live births . In 2013 , the estimated teen pregnancy rate – which reflects not only live births , but also miscarriages , stillbirths and abortions – was 43.4 pregnancies per 1,000 females ages 15 to 19 . This marks a steep decline , especially since 1990 , when the pregnancy rate among teens peaked at 117.6 . The abortion rate among 15- to 19-year-old girls and women has also been declining , from 44.0 per 1,000 in 1988 to 10.6 in 2013 . Of the roughly 450,000 pregnancies among teens in 2013 , about 61 % are estimated to have ended in live births , 24 % in abortions and 15 % in miscarriages or stillbirths .
At the same time , many Catholics also express appreciation for the traditions of the Roman Catholic Church . While about half of U.S. Catholics ( 46 % ) say the next pope should `` move the church in new directions , '' the other half ( 51 % ) say the new pope should `` maintain the traditional positions of the church . ''
A new analysis of data from Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel finds a slightly different share than the Census Bureau : the Center found that 22 % of Americans self-report living with a disability , defined here as a `` health problem , disability , or handicap currently keeping you from participating fully in work , school , housework , or other activities . '' Of those who say they have a disability , half ( 51 % ) say they have `` serious difficulty walking or climbing stairs , '' 31 % say they have `` serious difficulty concentrating , remembering or making decisions '' and 19 % say they have difficulty doing errands alone .
Many critics have questioned whether Secretary of State John Kerry 's focus on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is worth the effort , given the region 's rich history of diplomatic disappointment , but Kerry has managed to bring the two sides together this week in Washington for their first talks in several years . Polling finds limited optimism about the prospects for peace among Israelis and Palestinians , but many nonetheless welcome a larger American role in negotiating an end to the long running conflict .
Voters offer highly positive evaluations of election workers – especially those in their local communities – following the midterm elections . Nearly seven-in-ten ( 68 % ) say that poll workers in their community and officials who ran elections in their local area did their jobs very well . More than nine-in-ten say they did their jobs at least somewhat well .
According to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , the media devoted the most newshole last week to the economy . Reporting on the nation 's troubled economy , including stories about the impact of President Obama 's proposed budget , made up 21 % of coverage . Reporting on the Toyota recalls accounted for 11 % of the newshole , while developments in Haiti made up another 8 % . Stories about potential changes to the nation 's policies on gays and lesbians in the military made up 4 % , while the Super Bowl accounted for 3 % of the newshole . The Tea Party convention made up just 1 % of the coverage examined .
Overall , respondents in nations with lower gross domestic product are more likely to say that belief in God is necessary to be moral and have good values . In other words , there is an inverse relationship between GDP per capita and the percentage of the public that draws this connection between belief in God and morality . Statistical analysis shows a strong inverse correlation , with a coefficient of -0.86 .
Moreover , when asked whether they consider themselves as a national citizen first or as a Muslim first , French Muslims split relatively evenly ( 42 % vs. 46 % ) on the issue . Not only is this remarkably different from Muslims elsewhere in Europe ( fully 81 % of British Muslims self-identify with their religion rather than their nationality , for example ) but it is remarkably close to the responses given by Americans when asked whether they identify first as national citizens or as Christians ( 48 % vs. 42 % ) . Perhaps in this , as in other things , Muslims living in France are indeed absorbing the secular ways of their countrymen , among whom fully 83 % self-identify with their nationality , rather than their religion .
The Supreme Court 's favorability rating has edged below 50 % for the first time in nearly three decades of Pew Research Center polling . Currently , 48 % have a favorable opinion of the court while 38 % have an unfavorable opinion .
But any reform plan entailing cuts to benefits likely would face an uphill battle for public support . The 2014 Pew Research survey also found large majorities across all generations agreeing that Social Security benefits should n't be reduced ; even among Millennials , the generation furthest from retirement , only 37 % said future benefit reductions should be considered .
Nearly six months before the congressional midterm elections in November , just 19 % of Americans say they are following news about the candidates and campaign in their state or district very closely , while 32 % say they are following them fairly closely . About half of Americans ( 49 % ) say they are following election news not too closely or not at all closely . There are differences in attentiveness by race , education and ideology . Blacks are significantly more likely than either whites or Hispanics to say they have been following campaign news very closely ( 30 % of blacks compared with 18 % of whites and 13 % of Hispanics ) . Only about a third of those younger than 30 ( 32 % ) are tracking news about the congressional elections even fairly closely , with just 6 % following this news very closely . Nearly half of those ages 30 to 49 ( 47 % ) are following news about the midterms very or fairly closely , as are a majority of those 50 and older ( 61 % ) .
In general , internet access has been shown to be higher in wealthier countries , and this plays out to a greater likelihood of using the internet for news as well . For example , 61 % in Australia – which had a 2015 gross domestic product ( GDP ) per capita of $ 46,271 – get news at least once a day through the internet . Just 20 % in Senegal , with a GDP per capita of $ 2,421 , do the same .
Black History Month , which is celebrated every year in February , honors the achievements of black Americans throughout history . It 's also a time to reflect on larger themes of identity and community . Findings from Pew Research Center surveys conducted in recent years show that most black adults feel that they are part of a broader black community in the United States and see their race as important to how they think of themselves . About three-quarters of black adults say that being black is extremely ( 52 % ) or very ( 22 % ) important to how they think about themselves , according to a 2019 Pew Research Center survey . By comparison , about six-in-ten Hispanic ( 59 % ) and 56 % of Asian adults say being Hispanic or Asian , respectively , is extremely or very important to their identity . Only 15 % of white adults see race as a central piece of their identity . The share of black adults who say their race is central to their identity varies by age – adults younger than 30 deem race a less important part of their identity than do their older counterparts .
Japan is a relatively closed society demographically . The foreign population in Japan accounts for just 1.6 % of the country 's population . This is the third-smallest share in any OECD country . And the Japanese feel strongly about their national identity . Roughly nine-in-ten Japanese believe that to be considered truly Japanese , it is very important ( 70 % ) or somewhat important ( 22 % ) to be able to speak Japanese . A similar portion says it is very ( 43 % ) or somewhat important ( 47 % ) to share national customs and traditions to identify as Japanese . And roughly three-quarters voice the view that it is very ( 50 % ) or somewhat important ( 27 % ) to have been born in Japan to be truly Japanese . The intensity of such sentiment is felt most strongly by older Japanese – those ages 50 and older – who are far more likely than those ages 18 to 34 to believe it is very important that a person be born in Japan , speak Japanese and adhere to Japanese customs and traditions to be considered truly Japanese .
The survey finds the public closely tracked news about the economy last week , but the top story by far is the agreement by the president and Congress to cut federal spending and raise the debt limit . Nearly half ( 46 % ) followed news about the last-minute debt deal very closely ; the same percentage followed news about the economy very closely . However , 45 % say the debt limit agreement was the story they followed most closely ; the economy was a distant second , at 19 % . The debt limit agreement by political leaders in Washington also garnered the media 's attention , accounting for about a quarter ( 26 % ) of news coverage , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . Other economic news filled 19 % of the newshole . News about the Federal Aviation Administration 's partial shutdown , violence following political uprisings in Syria , the candidates for the 2012 presidential elections , and the food shortage in Somalia accounted for much smaller portions of the newshole and garnered less attention from the public .
Views of John McCain turned somewhat more negative last week , amid record public interest in economic news . In a survey conducted Sept. 19 - 22 , fully half of the public said their opinion of the GOP nominee had changed in the past few days , with 30 % saying their opinion has become less favorable and only 20 % saying their view has become more favorable . McCain 's public image had improved significantly the week he chose Sarah Palin to be his vice presidential running mate and the week of the GOP convention . Views of Obama were more stable last week and have generally fluctuated less than have views of McCain in recent weeks . Overall , 25 % of the public say their opinion of Obama has become more favorable in recent days , while 20 % say their opinion has become less favorable ; 53 % say their opinion of the Democratic nominee had not changed recently .
The balance of opinion on this is now comparable to where it was in March 2009 . As many say they are hearing mostly bad news ( 49 % ) as say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news ( 46 % ) or mostly good economic news ( 3 % ) .
In all , less than 1 % of homicides each year claim three or more victims . In 2010 , there were 31,672 deaths in the U.S. from firearm injuries , with the biggest categories being suicide ( 19,392 ) and homicide ( 11,078 ) , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data .
Nonetheless , despite the prevalence of negative opinions about the U.S. , most Pakistanis want better relations between the two countries . Nearly two-in-three ( 64 % ) say it is important for relations with the U.S. to improve , up from 53 % last year .
Although men across all age groups are more likely to aspire to be a boss or top manager , the gap between men and women is smallest among Millennials — those ages 18 to 32 in 2013 . Among this generation , 70 % of men who are not already a boss say they would like to be , compared with 61 % of women .
But on the contentious issue of the Keystone XL pipeline , which is under ongoing U.S. State Department review , there are differences within Canada as well as between Canadians and Americans . Almost half of Canadians ( 48 % ) oppose building the pipeline , while only 42 % favor it . In the U.S. , however , almost six-in-ten ( 59 % ) approve of the pipeline , according to a November 2014 Pew Research Center poll .
Meanwhile , John McCain has high favorability ratings among members of both political parties . Currently , 57 % of Americans view McCain favorably , while 33 % view him unfavorably . Nearly identical shares of Republicans ( 59 % ) and Democrats ( 57 % ) view McCain favorably .
This second survey , conducted May 29 to June 11 , 2018 , reveals that social media users generally believe it would be relatively easy for the platforms they use to determine key traits about them based on the data they have amassed about their behaviors . Majorities of social media users say it would be very or somewhat easy for these platforms to determine their race or ethnicity ( 84 % ) , their hobbies and interests ( 79 % ) , their political affiliation ( 71 % ) or their religious beliefs ( 65 % ) . Some 28 % of social media users believe it would be difficult for these platforms to figure out their political views , nearly matching the share of Facebook users who are assigned a political listing but believe that listing is not very or not at all accurately .
A Pew Research survey in May of 2011 found that those 65 and older had a negative reaction to Ryan 's plan to change Medicare : 51 % opposed the plan ( including 43 % who opposed it strongly ) compared with only 25 % who favored the plan . People under the age of 50 offered far more support than those over 50 for Ryan 's Medicare plan .
This past week , the presidential campaign was the third most closely followed news story . Fully one quarter of the public followed campaign news very closely and another 30 % paid fairly close attention . Twelve percent of the public said the campaign was the single news story they followed more closely than any other . In terms of news coverage , the campaign was ranked no . 2 – 10 % of the entire newshole was devoted to campaign news . Two foreign policy stories topped campaign news last week in terms of public interest . Roughly three-in-ten Americans ( 31 % ) paid very close attention to the release of 15 British sailors and marines held captive by the Iranian government , and 21 % said this was the story they followed most closely . The hostage story was no . 1 in terms of coverage : 12 % of the newshole was devoted to this story . One third of the public paid very close attention to the situation in Iraq and 20 % said this was the story they followed most closely . While media coverage of the Iraq war remains focused more heavily on the policy debate , the public expresses more interest in events on the ground in Iraq . Coverage of the policy debate outweighed news about the war itself by a better than two-to-one margin this past week . At the same time , the public was more than twice as likely to list the situation in Iraq , rather than the policy debate at home , as their top news story . News coverage of the firing of eight U.S. attorneys fell off dramatically last week , while public interest in the story remained fairly constant . The week of March 26 , 11 % of the newshole was devoted to the U.S. attorney firings – making it one of the top two most covered stories of that week . This past week , only 1 % of the news coverage was devoted to this story . Roughly one-in-five Americans paid very close attention to this story last week and 6 % said it was the story they followed most closely .
Germans and Americans are also skeptical of China 's human rights record . Overwhelming majorities in each country say the Chinese government does not respect the personal freedoms of its people . This has been true for many years . However , since 2013 , there has been a steady decline in both Germany and America in the percentage of those saying the U.S. government respects the personal freedoms of its people . In that year , 81 % of Germans and 69 % of Americans said the U.S. government respected the personal freedoms of its people . But after multiple scandals involving the exposure of National Security Agency eavesdropping , confidence in American respect for civil liberties began to decline . Now , just 35 % of Germans and 51 % of Americans hold this view .
The Republican Party 's image also has declined substantially among people who live in Tea Party districts . Currently , 41 % say they have a favorable opinion of the GOP , while 48 % say they have an unfavorable view . As recently as March of this year , GOP favorability was 14 points higher ( 55 % ) in these districts , with just 39 % offering an unfavorable opinion Among the public , 36 % now say they have a favorable opinion of the Republican Party , down from 42 % in March .
At a time when the global population of people ages 65 and older is expected to triple to 1.5 billion by mid-century , public opinion on whether the growing number of older people is a problem varies dramatically around the world , according to a Pew Research Center survey . Concern peaks in East Asia , where nearly nine-in-ten Japanese , eight-in-ten South Koreans and seven-in-ten Chinese describe aging as a major problem for their country . Europeans also display a relatively high level of concern with aging , with more than half of the public in Germany and Spain saying that it is a major problem . Americans are among the least concerned , with only one-in-four expressing this opinion .
In thinking about the issue positions of the two parties , majorities of Republicans and Democrats say they agree with their own party `` almost always '' or `` more than half the time '' – and very few agree with the opposing party 's positions . These views are little changed since last year . About seven-in-ten Republicans ( 72 % ) say they agree with the Republican Party almost always ( 22 % ) or more than half of the time ( 51 % ) on issues ; another 21 % agree with the party `` about half of the time , '' while just 7 % agree `` less than half of the time '' or `` almost never . '' Among Democrats , there is a similar level of agreement with the party 's positions : 73 % say they agree with the party almost always or more than half the time .
As gadgets with digital audio capability proliferate , podcast downloading continues to increase . Currently , 19 % of all internet users say they have downloaded a podcast so they could listen to it or view it later . This most recent percentage is up from 12 % of internet users who reported downloading podcasts in our August 2006 survey and 7 % in our February-April 2006 survey . Still , podcasting has yet to become a fixture in the everyday lives of internet users , as very few internet users download podcasts on a typical day . Even of those who say they download podcasts , just 17 % do so on a typical day .
Worldwide , Jews are the most likely to live alone ( 10 % ) , while Muslims and Hindus are the least likely to do so ( 1 % for each ) . These religious differences also surface within individual countries ; in Canada , for example , Christians ( 12 % ) are four times more likely than Hindus ( 3 % ) to live alone . Overall , living alone is very rare in most parts of the world ; only 4 % of people live in solo households .
The latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press finds the public evenly divided over whether deficit reduction or stimulus spending is the higher priority for the government right now . Among 1,005 adults interviewed over landline and cell phones June 18 - 21 , 48 % place a higher priority on `` spending more to help the economy recover '' while 46 % prioritize `` reducing the budget deficit . '' Two other recent national polls , which gave arguments on both sides of the issue , found the public giving greater priority to deficit reduction than to stimulating the economy . Both the CBS/New York Times and NBC/Wall Street Journal surveys , released last week , made efforts to explain the pros and cons of stimulus spending and deficit reduction , and both found majorities supporting the latter option . The NBC/WSJ survey asked if the president and Congress should worry more about `` boosting the economy even though it may mean larger budget deficits now and in the future '' or `` keeping the budget deficit down even though it may mean it will take longer for the economy to recover . '' When these countervailing arguments are provided , they find more siding with deficit reduction by a 23-point margin ( 58 % vs. 35 % ) . The CBS/NYT survey asked if the government `` should spend money to stimulate the national economy , even if it means increasing the budget deficit '' or `` should NOT spend money to stimulate the national economy and should instead focus on reducing the budget deficit . '' This formulation also found more favoring deficit reduction , but by a narrower 11-point margin ( 52 % vs. 41 % ) .
In addition to their strong support for Obama , Latino voters have moved sharply into the Democratic camp in the past two years , reversing a pro-GOP tide that had been evident among Latinos earlier in the decade . Some 65 % of Latino registered voters now say they identify with or lean toward the Democratic Party , compared with just 26 % who identify with or lean toward the GOP . This 39 percentage point Democratic Party identification edge is larger than it has been at any time this decade ; as recently as 2006 , the partisan gap was just 21 percentage points .
Some 25 % say they always look for such labels ; 25 % say they do so sometimes ; 17 % say they do so `` not too often '' ; and 31 % say they never look for GM labeling . Men are more likely than women to say they never look for GM labels . There are modest differences across other subgroups on this question as shown in the nearby table .
The downward trend in this figure – sometimes referred to as the `` disconnection rate '' – reflects in part the nation 's tight labor markets and falling unemployment , but also higher levels of engagement among young women . In 2018 , only 14.4 % of 18- to 24-year-old women were neither working nor enrolled in school , down from 21.7 % in 1989 .
Americans followed the health care debate more closely than any other news story last week as Senate Democrats struggled to find a compromise that would allow them to move legislation through their chamber despite strong Republican opposition . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say the health care debate was the story they followed most closely , while 19 % say they followed reports about the U.S. economy more closely than any other story . More than four-in-ten ( 42 % each ) say they followed news about these topics very closely , according to the Pew Research Center 's latest weekly News Interest Index , conducted Dec. 11 - 14 among 1,024 adults . The economy and the health care debate also were the week 's top stories in terms of coverage . According to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism , stories about the economic crisis made up 16 % of the newshole , while stories about the health care debate made up 14 % .
Driven in part by a highly competitive presidential primary season , cable news saw its viewership jump 8 % , to an average of 3.1 million viewers in prime time ( according to Pew Research Center analysis of Nielsen Media Research data , used under license ) . This was especially pronounced at CNN , whose prime-time audience grew 38 % . Cable channels gained economically as well , with annual revenue for the three major channels ( Fox News Channel , CNN and MSNBC ) projected to rise 10 % , to $ 4 billion . Podcasting continues to experience audience growth – though this includes both those podcasts focused on news and those looking at other subjects . About one-in-five U.S. adults ages 12 or older ( 21 % ) listened to some kind of podcast in the past month , up from 12 % six years ago , and 36 % have ever listened to a podcast , up from 23 % in 2010 . Though the audience ( and revenue ) for podcasts is only a small portion of that for radio , streaming radio has been growing as well , with the share who listened to online radio ( whether news or non-news ) in the past month more than doubling since 2010 , from 27 % to 57 % . This growth has n't necessarily cannibalized the audience for traditional radio , however ; 91 % of those ages 12 and older listened to terrestrial radio in the past month . When it comes to news radio in particular , NPR 's flagship news programs each have around 12 million listeners . ( This is roughly half of the average viewership of the three nightly TV network newscasts , which together attracted about 24 million viewers in 2015 . )
The death of pop star Michael Jackson continued to grab public attention last week , with Americans saying it was the story they followed most closely for the third straight week . Moreover , Jackson 's death was by far the week 's most talked about news story . About three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say they followed Jackson 's memorial service and the controversy surrounding his June 25 death more closely than any other major story last week . According to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted July 10 - 13 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press , a quarter say they tracked Jackson news very closely . That 's equal to the share that said they were following this story very closely one week earlier and down only slightly from 30 % just after Jackson 's death . The aftermath of Jackson 's death was also the week 's most reported story , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism . With extensive coverage of the July 7 memorial service , as well as reports about alleged misuse of prescription drugs and a possible custody fight over his children , reporting on Jackson filled 17 % of the newshole from July 6 - 12 .
The public is mixed when it comes to the potential impact that more Americans owning guns would have on crime in the U.S . Comparable shares say that if more Americans owned guns , there would be more crime ( 37 % ) or there would be no impact on the amount of crime ( 33 % ) . About one-in-three say there would be less crime .
Public awareness of online harassment is high : 94 % of U.S. adults have some degree of familiarity with this issue , and one-third have heard a lot about it . Overall , 62 % of the public considers online harassment to be a major problem , while just 5 % do not consider it to be a problem at all . When asked who should be responsible for policing or preventing abuse online , Americans assign responsibility to a variety of actors – most prominently , online companies and platforms . Roughly eight-in-ten Americans ( 79 % ) feel that online services have a responsibility to step in when harassing behavior occurs on their platforms , while just 15 % say that these services should not be held responsible for the behavior and content of its users . Meanwhile , 64 % say online platforms should play a major role in addressing online harassment , and 35 % believe that better policies and tools from these companies are the most effective way to address online harassment . At the same time , the public recognizes its own role in curbing online harassment . Fully 60 % of Americans say that bystanders who witness harassing behavior online should play a major role in addressing this issue , and 15 % feel that peer pressure from others is the single-most effective way to address online harassment . They also see a significant role for law enforcement in dealing with online abuse : 49 % think law enforcement should play a major role in addressing online harassment , and 31 % say stronger laws are the single-most effective way to address this issue . Simultaneously , a sizable proportion of Americans ( 43 % ) say that law enforcement currently does not take online harassment incidents seriously enough .
As automation looms and more and more jobs are being shaped to accommodate the tech-saturated `` knowledge economy , '' 63 % of full- and part-time workers say they have taken steps in the past 12 months to upgrade their skills and knowledge .
When asked about their second choices for the Democratic nomination , Democrats are roughly evenly divided between Elizabeth Warren ( 21 % ) and Kamala Harris ( 19 % ) . This strong second choice showing by Warren and Harris is due in large part to Warren and Harris supporters being more likely to name the other ( 39 % of Warren 's supporters named Harris as their second choice and 31 % of Harris supporters named Warren ) .
When it comes to parenting , dads are harder on themselves than moms are , especially dads who say they do n't spend enough time with their children . Among working dads who say they spend too little time with their kids , only 49 % say they are doing an excellent or good job as a parent . In contrast , among dads who say they spend the right amount of time with their kids , 81 % give themselves high marks for their parenting .
Overall , about half of Americans ( 48 % ) say the current number of restrictions on public activity in their area is about right . Republicans and Republican leaners are much more likely to say that there should be fewer restrictions in their area ( 44 % ) than to say there should be more restrictions in their area ( 16 % ) . Democrats and Democratic leaners are more likely to say there should be more restrictions ( 35 % ) than fewer ( 8 % ) . Republicans who live in states that are currently under stay-at-home orders are more likely to say there should be fewer restrictions in their area . About half ( 49 % ) of Republicans living in states under stay-at-home orders as of May 5 say this , compared with about four-in-ten Republicans living in states without such orders in place .
Stocks have been the most robust component of the nation 's up-to-recently spotty recovery from the Great Recession . Broad indices such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Standard & Poor 's 500 have long since surpassed their pre-crash highs . Even the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite , which plunged during the dot-com bust and remained depressed for years afterward , is close to the all-time high it set back in March 2000 .
However , most Tea Party Republicans have not ruled out the possibility of supporting Romney . One-in-five ( 20 % ) likely Republican primary voters who agree with the Tea Party say Romney is their top choice for the GOP nomination . Another 40 % say if their preferred candidate were not in the race there is a chance they could vote for the former Massachusetts governor . About three-in-ten ( 31 % ) likely Republican primary voters who agree with the Tea Party say there is no chance they would vote for Romney .
While majorities of both Democrats and Republicans – including independents , who lean towards these parties – believe that schools have a responsibility to provide technology to at least some students to help them complete their schoolwork , there are partisan differences when it comes to the idea of providing laptops or tablets to all students . Some 45 % of Democrats believe schools should be obligated to provide computers to all students during the outbreak , compared with 28 % of Republicans . Meanwhile , Republicans are more likely than Democrats to believe schools do not have a responsibility to provide computers to any students ( 29 % vs. 11 % ) .
The most intense library users are also the most likely to be frequent bookstore visitors : `` Library Lovers '' represent the most highly engaged group in the typology . They are also big readers : Most of them read books daily , and they read an average of 27 books in the past year . And despite their higher levels of library use and the fact that most prefer to borrow books rather than purchasing them , 57 % say they visit bookstores regularly ( a higher proportion than any other group ) .
Men and women who have used online dating sites and apps hold somewhat differing views about how widespread online harassment is on these platforms , according to the most recent survey . For example , while 32 % of female users say people being harassed or bullied is a very common occurrence on online dating platforms , that share falls to 19 % among male users . These gender differences persist across all age ranges . Among those who have used an online dating platform – as well as among Americans overall – women are less likely than men to view meeting someone through a dating site or app as safe . Around a third of women who have online dated ( 36 % ) believe these platforms are not too or not at all safe for meeting people , compared with 22 % of men . Still , majorities of online daters view these platforms as a safe way to meet others .
The move occurs amid a larger , but slow-moving , national trend . While the degree of racial segregation within religious congregations remains high , some houses of worship in the U.S. have become more diverse in recent years , according to findings from the most recent ( 2012 ) National Congregations Study ( NCS ) , directed by Duke University researcher Mark Chaves . ( The most recent study received financial support from the Pew Research Center 's Religion & Public Life Project . )
Along with mobile phones , Americans own a range of other information devices . Nearly three-quarters of U.S. adults now own desktop or laptop computers , while roughly half now own tablet computers and roughly half own e-reader devices .
Among a dozen specific spending and tax options for reducing the national debt and deficit , only three win majority approval from the public . They include : raising the tax rate on incomes over $ 250,000 ( 69 % approve ) ; limiting the amount of deductions a taxpayer can claim ( 54 % approve ) ; and raising the tax rate on investment income ( 52 % approve ) . While limiting deductions overall receives majority support , fewer ( 41 % ) support limiting the home mortgage interest deduction . At the other end of the spectrum — cuts in federal funding for education , transportation and the poor are particularly unpopular . Fully 77 % disapprove of cuts in education , 67 % oppose reduced funding for roads and transportation and 58 % disapprove of cuts in federal aid to the poor . In addition , 55 % disapprove of reductions in military defense spending while 43 % approve .
The electorate in last year 's presidential election was the most racially and ethnically diverse in U.S. history , with nearly one-in-four votes cast by non-whites , according to a new analysis of Census Bureau data by the Pew Research Center .1 The nation 's three biggest minority groups—blacks , Hispanics and Asians—each accounted for unprecedented shares of the presidential vote in 2008 . Overall , whites2 made up 76.3 % of the record 131 million people3 who voted in November 's presidential election , while blacks made up 12.1 % , Hispanics 7.4 % and Asians 2.5 % .4 The white share is the lowest ever , yet is still higher than the 65.8 % white share of the total U.S. population ( Pew Hispanic Center , 2009 ) .
A majority of Americans ( 63 % ) say that when they talk about politics with people they disagree with , they usually find they have `` less in common '' politically than they thought previously . Fewer than a third of Americans ( 31 % ) say they find they have more in common with people they disagree with politically .
Barack Obama 's overall approval ratings have been stable over the course of 2015 . Currently about as many say they approve of the way Barack Obama is handling his job as president as say they disapprove of his job performance ( 46 % vs. 48 % ) . But on several other key policy areas , there is more disapproval than approval of Obama 's performance . Ratings of Obama 's performance on the economy remain relatively unchanged over the past year : 52 % disapprove , while 43 % approve .
A good education and hard work are most often seen as the keys to getting ahead in life . This view is especially prevalent in emerging and developing nations , where most see economic opportunity expanding . Still , many also believe success can be determined by things outside a person 's control , such as luck or having a wealthy family .
The image of the U.S. has rebounded somewhat since the passage of Arizona 's controversial immigration bill in April 2010 , but it remains far more negative than it was prior to the law 's enactment . Currently , a slim majority ( 52 % ) of Mexicans hold a favorable view of the U.S. , while 41 % express a negative opinion . A year ago , 56 % had a favorable view of the U.S. , but those who were interviewed before Gov . Jan Brewer signed the Arizona measure into law on April 23 , 2010 , offered far more positive opinions than those interviewed following the law 's enactment ; 62 % of those interviewed April 14 - 20 , 2010 rated the U.S. favorably , compared with just 44 % of those interviewed May 1 - 6 , 2010 . In 2009 , nearly seven-in-ten Mexicans ( 69 % ) expressed a positive attitude toward the U.S .
While the Baltic countries have a substantial Christian population , only Lithuania and Latvia have large numbers of Catholics , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in 2015 and 2016 . Furthermore , the Catholics in these two nations are less religious than Catholics in neighboring countries , such as Poland . Lithuania is overwhelmingly Christian ( 93 % ) , and three-quarters of its adults identify as Catholic . The adult population of Latvia also is mostly Christian ( 77 % ) , but the share of Catholics in the country is smaller ( 23 % ) . Substantial portions of Latvia 's population are Orthodox Christians ( 31 % ) or Lutherans ( 19 % ) . By contrast , about half of Estonians identify as Christian ( 51 % ) , and only 1 % of the country 's adults say they are Catholic . As with Latvia , numerous Estonians are Orthodox ( 25 % ) or Lutheran ( 20 % ) . Most other Estonians ( 45 % ) – and about one-in-five Latvians ( 21 % ) – are religiously unaffiliated ( those who identify as atheist , agnostic or `` nothing in particular '' ) .
Yet on another dimension of personal polarization – having friends who generally share your politics – consistent conservatives stand out . Fully 63 % of consistent conservatives say most of their close friends share their political views , compared with 49 % of consistent liberals . Moreover , far more on the right ( 50 % ) than left ( 35 % ) say it is important to live in a place where most people share their political views . While these `` ideological silos '' are more common on the right than the left , what is equally striking is how little it matters for those with a mix of liberal and conservative views . Just 25 % of those with mixed ideological views say most of their friends share their views and just 22 % say it is important to live in a community where most share their views .
According to a new Pew Research Center survey conducted in association with the Bertelsmann Foundation , a majority of Germans ( 57 % ) believe it is more important for Germany to have strong ties with the United States than with Russia . Just 15 % prefer strong ties with Russia , and another 21 % volunteer that it is best to have an equally close relationship with both .
Among Republicans and Republican leaners , younger adults have much more positive views of colleges and universities than older adults . About half ( 52 % ) of Republicans ages 18 to 29 say colleges and universities have a positive impact on the country , compared with just 27 % of those 65 and older . By contrast , there are no significant differences in views among Democrats by age , with comparable majorities of all age groups saying colleges and universities have a positive impact .
Americans have different views about where it is and is n't appropriate to use a cellphone . In a 2014 Pew Research Center survey , roughly three-quarters of adults said it was OK for people to use their phones while walking down the street , riding public transit or waiting in line , but far fewer found it acceptable to use cellphones during a meeting , at the movies or in church .
When it comes to getting news about politics and government , liberals and conservatives inhabit different worlds : Consistent conservatives are tightly clustered around a single news source , with 47 % citing Fox News as their main source for news about government and politics , while consistent liberals name a few main news sources .
Just a few years ago , there was broad agreement on some – though not all – energy policy objectives . In 2006 , during George W. Bush 's presidency , comparable majorities of independents ( 85 % ) , Republicans ( 82 % ) and Democrats ( 77 % ) favored increasing federal funding for research on wind , solar and hydrogen technology . Since then , support for funding alternative technology research has fallen by 24 points among Republicans ( to 58 % ) and 10 points among independents ( 75 % ) , while increasing slightly among Democrats ( 84 % ) . Much of the change in opinions among Republicans came after Barack Obama took office in 2009 . In September 2008 , 85 % of Republicans and 77 % of independents favor increased funding for alternative energy research ; in May of 2010 , 61 % of Republicans and 73 % of independents favored more funding for alternative energy research . There has been a similar trend in opinions about requiring better fuel efficiency for cars , trucks and SUVs . Seven years ago , large majorities across all partisan groups ( 87 % of independents , 86 % of Democrats and 85 % of Republicans ) favored higher fuel efficiency standards . The percentage of Democrats favoring this has changed little over this period ( currently 84 % favor ) , while falling 25 points among Republicans and 13 points among independents .
When asked how much confidence they have in Chinese President Xi Jinping to do the right thing regarding world affairs , about three-quarters of Americans say they have not too much confidence or no confidence at all ( 77 % ) . And , for the first time since the question was first asked in 2014 , a majority ( 55 % ) now say they have no confidence at all in the Chinese president . This is a 10-point increase from March and more than double the share who said so last year .
The Indian public voices much enthusiasm for this kind of so-called `` greenfield '' investment arrangement , in which a company establishes operations in a foreign country . A majority believes that foreign companies building new factories in India has a good impact on their country , including 24 % who say this is very good . This type of investment is more popular than foreign mergers and acquisitions , where a foreign company buys a domestic company outright . Just 43 % of Indians say it 's good when foreign companies buy Indian companies , compared with 47 % who think that has a bad impact on their nation .
While the partisan gap in personal evaluations has not widened noticeably in recent years ( after a brief enlargement in 2005 ) , it remains significant . That is , again , unsurprising given that Republicans are , on average , significantly better off financially than either Democrats or independents . About one-in-three Republicans ( 32 % ) in recent Pew surveys has an annual income above $ 75,000 , compared with 22 % of Democrats and 25 % of independents . By the same token 60 % of Republicans rate their personal financial situation as good or excellent , compared with only 40 % of Democrats and 45 % of independents .
Among male respondents , about three-in-ten ( 32 % ) say men generally prefer to work with men while only 7 % say they favor women co-workers . An even larger share of women—40 % –of women say men prefer men as co-workers while 9 % say men would rather work with women .
At the same time , the proportion of tweeted links associated with suspected bots varied substantially by media outlet . The share of links posted by suspected automated accounts to sites within Pew Research Center 's set of 50 news organizations ranged from 32 % to 91 % . More than half of these media outlets – 33 of 50 – saw a higher proportion of tweeted links from suspected automated accounts than from humans during the study period . When suspected bot accounts link to news on Twitter , posts are more likely to focus on nonpolitical than political content . In addition to looking at the news sites that suspected bot accounts linked to , we examined the text of each tweet to determine whether or not it focused on political content . In general , the higher the share of politics-focused tweets that linked to a particular news site in our analysis , the lower the likelihood that a suspected bot shared the tweet . Suspected bots are more likely to link to political news sites that have an ideologically mixed or centrist audience than to sites that have a very liberal or very conservative audience . In an additional analysis of a broader set of 358 popular news and current-events sites that feature political content in their headlines , researchers found that the ideology of these sites ' audiences was negatively associated with the proportion of tweeted links shared by suspected bots . Automated accounts posted roughly 41 % of links to political sites shared primarily by liberals and 44 % of links to political sites shared primarily by conservatives – a difference that is not statistically significant . By contrast , suspected bots shared between 57 % and 66 % of links from news and current-events sites shared primarily by an ideologically mixed or centrist human audience .
The U.S. population reached 200 million in the mid to late 1960s . At that time , the U.S. population was 84 % white , 11 % black , 4 % Hispanic and 1 % Asian and Pacific Islander .
Most violent and property crimes in the U.S. are not reported to police , and most of the crimes that are reported are not solved . In its annual survey , BJS asks crime victims whether they reported their crime to police or not . In 2019 , only 40.9 % of violent crimes and 32.5 % of household property crimes were reported to authorities . BJS notes that there are a variety of reasons why crime might not be reported , including fear of reprisal or `` getting the offender in trouble , '' a feeling that police `` would not or could not do anything to help , '' or a belief that the crime is `` a personal issue or too trivial to report . '' Most of the crimes that are reported to police , meanwhile , are not solved , at least based on an FBI measure known as the clearance rate . That 's the share of cases each year that are closed , or `` cleared , '' through the arrest , charging and referral of a suspect for prosecution , or due to `` exceptional '' circumstances such as the death of a suspect or a victim 's refusal to cooperate with a prosecution . In 2019 , police nationwide cleared 45.5 % of violent crimes that were reported to them and 17.2 % of the property crimes that came to their attention .
In Western European countries , sentiments tend to run in the opposite direction . In Sweden ( 82 % ) , the Netherlands ( 74 % ) , the UK ( 72 % ) , Germany ( 62 % ) , Spain ( 60 % ) and France ( 59 % ) , majorities disagree that there are parts of other countries that belong to them .
Among the eight issues included in the survey , people seemed most comfortable with the practice of using contraceptives . Only a median of 14 % across the 40 countries said that using contraceptives ( we did not specify exactly what kind of contraceptive ) was morally wrong , while 54 % said they personally believed it was acceptable . A further 21 % said it was not a moral issue . Only in Pakistan , Nigeria and Ghana did half or more say contraceptives were immoral .
Opinions about the importance of both priorities , but especially global warming , are divided along partisan lines . Since 2013 , the share saying that dealing with global warming should be a top priority has increased 16 points among Democrats ( 38 % to 54 % ) and ticked up eight points among independents ( 31 % to 39 % ) . Just 15 % of Republicans rate this as a top priority , while 21 % view it as an important but lower priority . A majority of Republicans say dealing with global warming is not too important ( 31 % ) or should not be done ( also 31 % ) . Partisan differences over the importance of protecting the environment are not as stark . Two-thirds of Democrats ( 66 % ) and 35 % of Republicans rate this as a top priority . Most members of both parties ( 94 % of Democrats and 82 % of Republicans ) say it is either a top priority or an important but lower priority .
In addition to the broadly negative assessments of current economic conditions , few in the countries surveyed are hopeful things will get better in the next year . A median of 35 % think the economic situation in their country will improve in the next 12 months , while nearly half ( 46 % ) expect conditions to worsen and 19 % think nothing will change .
For American teens , it 's not just a Facebook and Instagram world . While these two social media sites are the most popular , a majority ( 71 % ) of teens say they use more than one of the seven social networking sites we asked about . Much of this frenzy is facilitated by mobile devices : Nearly three-quarters of U.S. teens have access to a smartphone .
The United Kingdom may soon become the first country to leave the European Union , pending the results of a June 23 referendum . As the vote nears , a new Pew Research Center survey highlights a key British complaint about the EU : Nearly two-thirds of Britons say they want the EU to return certain powers to national governments . Only 6 % want to transfer more powers to the Brussels-based institution .
Furthermore , among seven global issues , Indians are most concerned about climate change . Over seven-in-ten Indians ( 73 % ) are very concerned about global climate change , compared with 49 % who are concerned with global economic instability , the second-highest response .
While Russia 's power and influence are not named as the greatest threat in any of the countries polled in Europe or North America , there is particular concern in Poland ( 65 % ) . And 47 % in the U.S. see Russia as a major threat , but there is a partisan divide : 61 % of Democrats say Russia 's power and influence is a major threat , compared with only 36 % of Republicans . Across all of Europe , a median of 41 % perceive Russia as a major threat . U.S. power and influence is seen as a major threat by a median of 31 % across Europe . Spain , however , is an outlier , with 59 % worried about the U.S . In six European countries surveyed and Canada , worries about American power and influence are up since 2016 . ( For more on this trend , see here . ) China 's power and influence are seen as a major threat by a modest median of three-in-ten across Europe .
According to a Pew Research Center poll conducted in March , the Mexican public broadly supports using such tactics for pursuing drug traffickers . More than eight-in-ten favor employing the Mexican army to fight the drug cartels . Just 13 % oppose .
The survey finds that just 18 % say they are satisfied with state of the nation – the lowest percentage in two decades of People-Press polls . Reflecting the widespread unhappiness with the national economy , an overwhelming proportion of respondents say the economy ( 88 % ) and jobs ( 78 % ) will be very important in their vote . In addition , roughly three-quarters each name healthcare , education , energy and Social Security as very important .
The most active 10 % of adult Twitter users in the U.S. produce 80 % of all tweets sent by these users . The median adult user of the platform tweets just twice a month , but a small group tweets much more frequently , according to our April study . There was an even starker pattern in a follow-up study that looked specifically at tweets about national politics . In that study , 97 % of tweets that were created by U.S. adults and mentioned national politics came from just 10 % of users .
Americans have agreed that `` In deciding on its foreign policies , the U.S. should take into account the views of its major allies '' by large majorities for the past 50 years . In addition , large majorities have consistently disagreed with the statement `` Since the U.S. is the most powerful nation in the world , we should go our own way in international matters , not worrying too much about whether other countries agree with us or not . ''
As the debate over college admissions policies reignites , a new Pew Research Center survey finds that most Americans ( 73 % ) say colleges and universities should not consider race or ethnicity when making decisions about student admissions . Just 7 % say race should be a major factor in college admissions , while 19 % say it should be a minor factor . While majorities across racial and ethnic groups agree that race should not be a factor in college admissions , white adults are particularly likely to hold this view : 78 % say this , compared with 65 % of Hispanics , 62 % of blacks and 58 % of Asians . ( Asians were interviewed in English only ; for more details , please see `` Race in America 2019 . '' )
Race relations : Nearly a year into Trump 's presidency , a majority of Americans ( 60 % ) say his election has worsened race relations in the United States . Three-in-ten say Trump 's election has not made a difference when it comes to race relations , and just 8 % say his election has made them better . Just after Trump 's election in 2016 , nearly half of Republican voters ( 48 % ) said they expected his election to lead to improved race relations . Roughly a year later , just 17 % of Republicans say it has . Meanwhile , about eight-in-ten Democratic voters ( 83 % ) say Trump 's election has made race relations worse , little different than the share who expected his election to lead to worse race relations in November 2016 ( 81 % ) .
Views of the U.S. remain positive , especially when compared with China . Half or more in almost every nation surveyed have a favorable opinion of the U.S . The highest marks for the U.S. are found in Poland , Italy and Japan . About half or more of Indians and Chinese also have a positive view of America . The only country surveyed in which views are negative is Greece , where only 38 % have a positive opinion of the U.S. China receives lower ratings than the U.S. in virtually every country surveyed . This includes positive ratings of just 11 % from neighboring Japan , and 31 % from India . European countries also see China negatively , with no country expressing majority support except Greece , where 57 % have a positive view of China . In 2016 , many people across the nations polled say the U.S. is the world 's leading economic power . Australia stands out as the one nation polled where at least half ( 52 % ) say China is the top economy in the world , compared with 32 % who say it is the U.S . Relatively few respondents in these 16 nations think Japan or the countries of the European Union are the globe 's leading economic power , although 25 % of Germans say it is the EU countries .
The share of women sitting on the boards of Fortune 500 companies has more than doubled , from 9.6 % in 1995 to 22.2 % in 2017 .
In the last year , views of U.S. global importance and power have plummeted . For the first time in surveys dating back nearly four decades , a majority ( 53 % ) says the United States plays a less important and powerful role as a world leader than it did a decade ago . The share saying the U.S. is less powerful has increased 12 points since 2009 and has more than doubled – from just 20 % – since 2004 . An even larger majority says the U.S. is losing respect internationally . Fully 70 % say the United States is less valued than in the past , which nearly matches the level reached late in the second term of former President George W. Bush ( 71 % in May 2008 ) . Early last year , fewer Americans ( 56 % ) thought that the U.S. had become less respected globally .
About eight-in-ten Democrats ( 82 % ) approve of the law while 91 % of Republicans disapprove of it , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . Independents are more evenly split on the question , with 41 % approving and 54 % disapproving . But among independents who lean to the Democratic Party , 64 % approve of the law , while 85 % of independents who lean Republican disapprove of it .
The public overall is about evenly divided over which has more to do with why a person is rich : 45 % say it is because he or she worked harder than most people , while 43 % say it is because they had more advantages in life than others , according to a survey conducted April 5 - 11 among 1,501 U.S. adults . Opinion has shifted modestly on this question : In both 2015 and 2014 , more attributed a person 's wealth to greater advantages than to a stronger work ethic . By about three-to-one ( 66 % to 21 % ) , Republicans and Republican-leaning independents say hard work , rather than a person 's advantages , has more to do with why someone is rich . By nearly as wide a margin , Democrats and Democratic leaners say the opposite : 60 % say a person is rich because they had more advantages than others , while just 29 % say it is because they have worked harder . As with many other issues , partisan differences in views of why people are rich and poor have increased in recent years . Since 2014 , the share of Republicans who say a person is rich more because they have worked harder than others has risen 12 percentage points , from 54 % to 66 % . Democrats ' views have shown less change . Republicans are more likely to say the reason someone is poor generally has more to do with of a lack of effort ( 56 % ) than circumstances beyond a person 's control ( 32 % ) . By 71 % -19 % , more Democrats say that circumstances beyond one 's control are generally more often to blame for why a person is poor . The share of Democrats who link a person being poor to a lack of effort has declined since 2014 ( from 29 % to 19 % ) .
A 54 % majority of the American public said Ford would go down as an `` average '' president in a Gallup poll last year , while about equal shares thought history will remember him as outstanding or above average ( 21 % ) and below average or poor ( 19 % ) . A 2011 Pew Research poll asked adults to name the person who had done the best job as president over their lifetime . Less than 1 percent of adults named Ford , even when limited to those who were 18 or older during his presidency . No other president who had served since Herbert Hoover received fewer mentions ( Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan topped the list at 34 % and 25 % , respectively ) .
The other Republican candidates trail on both fronts . Newt Gingrich was a significant figure in 28 % of election stories ; 13 % say he was the candidate they had heard most about in the news . Ron Paul was a significant player in 4 % of coverage , while 6 % say he was the candidate they heard most about .
Nearly two-thirds ( 64 % ) say most politicians are corrupt ( including 43 % who very intensely hold this view ) . Notably , nearly seven-in ten ( 69 % ) of both BJP supporters and Congress backers share the view that elected leaders are corrupt . Another 58 % voice the opinion that no matter who wins an election , things do not change very much . This includes a majority of both BJP and Congress adherents . And only 33 % of Indian adults believe elected officials care what ordinary people think . Men are more likely than women to believe that officials do n't care , but almost a third of women ( 32 % ) decline to voice an opinion . By more than two-to-one ( 58 % to 26 % ) , Indians say their rights to express their own views are protected very or somewhat well . Those with more education are more likely than those with less education to say freedom of speech is protected , although , again , a significant share of the less educated ( 22 % ) voice no opinion .
Even more dramatic is the past year 's traffic report for Wikipedia , one of the poster children for Web 2.0 . The online encyclopedia whose content is shaped by the wisdom ( and folly ) of its users has launched into an upward trajectory that contrasts sharply with the sluggish growth of its corporate cousin , Encarta . In spite of , or perhaps because of the reputation speed bumps of the Encyclopedia Britannica and John Seigenthaler Sr. controversies during the past year , Wikipedia 's audience is now growing faster than ever . More users want to contribute to and edit entries , and more people are interested in reading them .
A majority of Americans continue to say they see the effects of climate change in their own communities and believe that the federal government falls short in its efforts to reduce the impacts of climate change . At a time when partisanship colors most views of policy , broad majorities of the public – including more than half of Republicans and overwhelming shares of Democrats – say they would favor a range of initiatives to reduce the impacts of climate change , including large-scale tree planting efforts , tax credits for businesses that capture carbon emissions and tougher fuel efficiency standards for vehicles , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . The new national survey by Pew Research Center , conducted April 29 to May 5 among 10,957 U.S. adults using the Center 's online American Trends Panel , finds a majority of U.S. adults want the government to play a larger role in addressing climate change . About two-thirds ( 65 % ) of Americans say the federal government is doing too little to reduce the effects of climate change – a view that 's about as widely held today as it was last fall .
For police , attitudes about media bias are linked to other feelings about their jobs . Officers who feel strongly that the media treat police unfairly , for example , are more likely than their colleagues to say their work as a law enforcement officer nearly always or often makes them feel frustrated and even angry . Roughly two-thirds of officers ( 65 % ) who strongly agree that the media treat police unfairly say their work always or often makes them feel frustrated , and about one-in-three ( 31 % ) say it makes them feel angry . Feelings of frustration or anger are significantly less common among officers who do n't feel as strongly about media coverage of police . Further analysis would be needed to determine what comes first for police – cynicism about media coverage or feelings of frustration and anger – but these attitudes are clearly related .
There also are differences in views of financial regulations by age and education . Among Americans younger than 30 , just 33 % say the government has gone too far in regulating financial institutions , while more ( 52 % ) say it has not gone far enough . Older Americans are more divided in their views . Majorities of those with at least a four-year college degree say the government has n't gone far enough regulating financial institutions : 56 % say this , while just 34 % say regulation has gone too far . By comparison , a smaller share of those with no more than a high school diploma ( 41 % ) think there has not been enough regulation of the financial sector , while 51 % say the government has gone too far regulating these institutions .
The U.S. , which has a total population of 317 million , is now home to a record 40.4 million immigrants .
Despite their wariness of U.S. military action , older Americans are more likely than those in younger age groups to hold the view that `` we should all be willing to fight for our country , whether it is right or wrong . '' In August 2003 , 64 % of those over 65 supported this tenet , while barely half ( 51 % ) of those under age 30 agreed . This gap has persisted since the late 1980s .
Overall , 63 % of Democratic voters say there are several candidates they feel excited about . Liberal Democrats ( 73 % ) are more likely to express this view than are conservative and moderate Democrats ( 52 % ) . And while about two-thirds of Democrats who say they follow government affairs most of the time ( 68 % ) say they are excited about several candidates in the Democratic field , only about half of those who follow government less closely ( 53 % ) say the same .
Gallup 's annual economy and finance survey , conducted in April , found 52 % of Americans saying they owned stock , either directly or through a mutual fund , retirement account or other investment vehicle . The ownership share dropped sharply after the 2007 - 08 financial crisis and has continued falling throughout the nation 's wobbly recovery . ( A Pew Research Center survey conducted in March found a somewhat lower ownership share — only 45 % of Americans in that survey said they had money in the market . )
Across Europe , 91 % of students in primary and secondary school were studying English in 2017 – more than all other foreign languages learned combined by a large margin , according to data from Eurostat , the statistics arm of the European Commission . The next-most studied languages in European schools are French , German and Spanish , each garnering no more than 15 % of students participating in 2017 . Russian , studied in a formal classroom by 2 % of Europeans , is the only other foreign language that more than 1 % of European students learn .
Immigration policy debates continue to roil Congress and Washington , with Obama 's recent executive action likely to affect millions of unauthorized immigrants . While the population growth of unauthorized immigrants living in the U.S. has stabilized , there 's been a sharp increase in the median length of time they have lived here . The typical unauthorized immigrant adult has now been in the U.S. for nearly 13 years , up from 7.4 years in 1995 .
Millennials remain the most Democratic age cohort : 51 % of Millennials identify as Democrats or lean Democratic , compared with 35 % who identify as Republican or lean Republican . The balance of leaned party identification narrows among Generation X and the Baby Boomers . And among the Silent Generation , Republicans hold a four-point lead in leaned party affiliation ( 47 % -43 % ) . Back to top
The public 's perceptions of economic news remain mixed and far less positive than earlier in 2010 . More than half ( 55 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy ; 39 % say they are hearing mostly bad news while just 4 % say they are hearing mostly good news . Those numbers have changed little since July , when perceptions of economic news took a turn for the worse .
Americans and Germans diverge on who is the world 's leading economic power . Roughly half of Americans ( 49 % ) name the U.S. as the world 's economic leader , while only 19 % of Germans say the same . Over half of Germans ( 53 % ) say China is the leading economy . A further 21 % of Germans say the countries of the European Union are the world 's top economic power , while only 7 % of Americans say this .
About a third ( 34 % ) say they followed stories about the continued attempts by pirates to hijack ships more closely than any other story last week , while 27 % say they followed stories about the U.S. economy most closely . More than half of the public ( 52 % ) says they followed economic news very closely , while about four-in-ten ( 41 % ) say they followed news about the pirates very closely . About one-in-ten ( 9 % ) say they followed the tea party protests more closely than any other story , while just more than a quarter ( 27 % ) say they followed the protests very closely . Some 17 % of Americans say they followed news about Obama 's travels to Mexico and Latin America last week very closely , while 6 % say that was the story they followed most closely . PEJ reported this week that Obama 's trip to Mexico accounted for 3 % of the newshole . The analysis did not include Obama 's second stop in Trinidad . Two-in-ten say they followed news about Obama lifting certain restrictions on travel to Cuba ; 3 % say this was the story they followed most closely . Stories about Cuba , including changes in U.S. policies toward the island nation , made up 2 % of the newshole .
Those who identify as Republicans are more likely than GOP leaners to view the Republican Party as conservative . While identical 11 % shares of both groups give the GOP the most conservative rating of 10 , Republicans on average are more likely to give the GOP a conservative score of 6 through 9 than are independents who lean Republican .
The general news media and specialty publications are major ways most Americans get their information about science . But many also are exposed to scientific subjects through movies and television shows – and they come away from these fictional portraits with a positive impression of working in science , technology and medicine . Roughly eight-in-ten Americans ( 81 % ) say they at least sometimes watch one or more of three types of science-related entertainment shows and movies : those focusing on criminal investigations , ones about hospitals and medical settings , or science fiction , according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted in May and June .
The nation 's Latino population has long been one of its youngest . In 2014 , the most recent year for which data are available , the median age of Hispanics – 28 years – was well below that of the major racial groups and has been so since at least the 1980s . But as with the nation 's population overall , the Hispanic population 's median age has steadily risen since the 1980s , from 22 then to 28 in 2014 , a significant change though still the smallest increase in median age among any major racial or ethnic group during that time period . For example , the median age among whites was 43 in 2014 , up 12 years since 1980 . Among Asians , the median age in 2014 was 36 , up eight years since 1980 . And for blacks , the median age has risen nine years since 1980 to 33 in 2014 .
More than any other state , Hawaii stands out when it comes to its racial and ethnic diversity . The Rainbow State has never had a white majority . In fact , non-Hispanic whites , the largest group in most states , account for only 23 % of the population , according to 2013 census figures . But the real population story is about Native Hawaiians , those who are descended from the original people of Hawaii and who today make up 6 % of the islands ' population , or 21 % if you include those who are part-Hawaiian . A new demographic analysis , using an innovative technique , estimates that there were 683,000 Native Hawaiians on the island in 1778 , when British explorer Capt . James Cook arrived . That 's on the higher range of the highly disputed historical estimates , which have ranged from as low as 200,000 to as high as 1 million . ( Today , Hawaii 's total population stands at 1.4 million . )
Americans largely support the use of drones to target extremists in countries like Pakistan , Yemen and Somalia . A March survey found 61 % overall supported the strikes while 30 % disapproved . The drone program had bipartisan support – majorities of Republicans ( 69 % ) , Democrats ( 59 % ) and independents ( 60 % ) approved . However , the drone operations are widely unpopular in the rest of the world . In 31 of 39 countries surveyed last spring , at least half of the publics disapproved of the attacks . At least three-in-four held this view in 15 of the countries . Aside from the U.S. , the only countries where majorities supported the drone strikes were Israel ( 64 % ) and Kenya ( 56 % ) . In Pakistan , they were opposed by 68 % of the public .
Opinion about expanding the use of nuclear power has fluctuated in recent years . However , the current measure matches a previous low in support for increased nuclear power recorded in September 2005 ( 39 % favor , 53 % oppose ) .
Hispanics ' experience with discrimination or being treated unfairly varies greatly by age . Among Hispanics ages 18 to 29 , 65 % say they have experienced discrimination or unfair treatment because of their race or ethnicity . By comparison , only 35 % of Hispanics 50 and older say the same – a 30-percentage-point gap . In addition , Hispanics born in the U.S. ( 62 % ) are more likely than immigrants ( 41 % ) to say they have experienced discrimination or unfair treatment . There are also differences by race . For example , 56 % of nonwhite Hispanics say this has happened at some point in their lives , a higher share than that among white Hispanics ( 41 % ) .
When asked in an open-ended question what Latinx means in their own words , 42 % of those who have heard the term describe it as a gender-neutral one . As one 21-year-old woman said , `` Latinx is a more inclusive term to use for those who do not choose to identify with a certain gender . The terms Latino and Latina are very limiting for certain people . '' Other responses from the open-ended question offer other descriptions of Latinx and reactions to it . For example , 12 % of respondents who had heard of Latinx express disagreement or dislike of the term . Some described the term as an `` anglicism '' of the Spanish language , while others say the term is `` not representative of the larger Latino community . '' Among other responses , 12 % say Latinx is a term about being Hispanic or Latino , while 9 % of those aware of Latinx say it is an LGBTQ community inclusive term . And 6 % of respondents who have heard of Latinx say it is a new , alternative or replacement term for Latino .
The partisan gap over Keystone XL is stark . About three-quarters ( 76 % ) of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents favor building the Keystone XL pipeline ; about as many Democrats ( 74 % ) are opposed .
Over the past month , conservative Republicans have become more likely to say their greater concern is that restrictions will not be lifted quickly enough . The 61 % of conservative Republicans who now say this is up from 53 % in another survey conducted April 7 - 12 . Among moderate and liberal Republicans , by comparison , the 61 % who now say they are more concerned that restrictions will be lifted too quickly is nearly identical to the 60 % who said this in the earlier survey . Democrats are more united than Republicans when it comes to their concerns about state-level restrictions . About nine-in-ten liberal Democrats ( 91 % ) say their greater concern is that restrictions will be lifted too quickly , a view shared by more than eight-in-ten conservative or moderate Democrats ( 83 % ) .
Midterm elections rarely excite the general public , but 2014 is shaping up to be an especially underwhelming cycle for many Americans . With about a month remaining in the congressional races , 15 % are very closely following news about the midterms — down from similar periods before the elections in 2010 ( 25 % ) and 2006 ( 21 % ) . As Pew Research has tracked midterm news interest throughout the year , attention to the elections consistently has lagged behind what it was four years ago . In eight surveys this year , news interest in the midterms has never topped 16 % in a given week .
Currently , 49 % of Americans say it is more important to protect the right of Americans to own guns , while 46 % say it is more important to control gun ownership . In September 2010 , 50 % prioritized gun control , 46 % gun rights . In this regard , there is no sign that the longer trend toward an emphasis on gun owners ' rights has abated . The issue remains a deeply divisive one along party lines — by a 72 % -to-22 % margin Republicans say protecting gun rights is more important , while by a 70 % -to-26 % margin Democrats prioritize gun control . Independents are more divided , with 52 % favoring gun rights and 44 % gun control . For a comprehensive look at opinions on the gun issue , see `` Views of Gun Control — A Detailed Demographic Breakdown , '' Jan. 13 .
When Americans are asked why more students do n't pursue a degree in science , technology , engineering or math ( STEM ) , they are most likely to point to the difficulty of these subjects , according to a new Pew Research Center survey . About half of adults ( 52 % ) say the main reason young people do n't pursue STEM degrees is they think these subjects are too hard . In the new Center survey , Americans with a college degree or more education are more likely than those with less education to say the main reason is that young people think STEM subjects are too hard ( 63 % vs. 46 % ) . Those without a college degree are about twice as likely as college graduates to say the main reason young people do n't pursue a degree in a STEM field is that they think these subjects are not useful for their careers ( 27 % vs. 13 % ) .
In the Pew Global Attitudes Project poll , Obama consistently received more positive reviews than either Bush or McCain . In nearly all of the countries surveyed , there was more confidence in Obama than in McCain , and in many countries the gap between the Democratic and Republican nominees was striking . While 84 % of the French who were following the race voiced confidence in Obama , only one-in-three said the same about McCain . Similar gaps were found throughout Europe and in a diverse group of countries .
Trading young for old : Most countries , including the U.S. , are projected to see the share of their population that is 65 and older surpass the share that is younger than 15 by mid-century .
About six-in-ten Germans name France as one of their country 's top two foreign policy partners , while roughly one-third name the U.S . These results are consistent across a range of political parties : Supporters of the CDU/CSU , their coalition partner the SPD , the Left Party and the Greens all rank France and the U.S. as Germany 's most important foreign policy allies . Russia and China rank third and fourth , respectively , as the most important foreign policy partner across selected political parties except for the Greens , where these countries ' rankings are reversed .
Nearly half of Republicans with incomes under $ 40,000 ( 47 % ) say that the government does not provide enough assistance for poor people . This is considerably higher than those who make between $ 40,000 and $ 75,000 or $ 75,000 or more ; only about three-in-ten in these income brackets say that poor people do not receive enough assistance ( 32 % and 28 % , respectively ) .
Among the opinion statements , roughly three-quarters of 18- to 49-year-olds ( 77 % ) correctly identified the following opinion statement , one that appeals more to the ideological right – `` Government is almost always wasteful and inefficient '' – compared with about two-thirds of older Americans ( 65 % ) . And younger Americans were slightly more likely than older adults ( 82 % vs. 78 % , respectively ) to correctly categorize this opinion statement , one appealing more to the left : `` Abortion should be legal in most cases . ''
The presidential campaign once again was the most heavily covered story of the week , accounting for 38 % of all news coverage . For the public , however , the rising price of gas , which emerged as a prominent issue in the campaign , was the top news story . More than six-in-ten ( 63 % ) say they followed news about gas prices very closely and 30 % cited it as the story they followed most closely last week . The public also closely tracked news about the national economy : 43 % say the followed economic news very closely with 20 % citing it as the story they followed most closely last week . The economy was the second most covered story , accounting for 10 % of news coverage . Interest in campaign news remained fairly stable last week . Roughly a quarter of Americans ( 27 % ) say they followed news about the presidential campaign very closely , with 16 % saying they followed it more closely than other any other story . Far more Democrats than independents or Republicans tracked campaign news very closely . About four-in-ten Democrats ( 39 % ) say they paid very close attention to news about the campaign , compared with 23 % of independents and 21 % of Republicans .
But over a 15-month period encompassing the 2016 presidential campaign , about 10 % of Republicans and Democrats `` defected '' from their parties to the opposing party . The numbers are very similar among those who were Democrats in 2015 : 79 % consistently identified as Democrats or leaned Democratic in all five surveys , while 9 % switched parties at some point but came back to the Democratic Party by March .
Among veterans , 64 % say the war in Iraq was not worth fighting considering the costs versus the benefits to the United States , while 33 % say it was . The general public 's views are nearly identical : 62 % of Americans overall say the Iraq War was n't worth it and 32 % say it was . Similarly , majorities of both veterans ( 58 % ) and the public ( 59 % ) say the war in Afghanistan was not worth fighting . About four-in-ten or fewer say it was worth fighting .
In other news this week , 28 % of the public paid very close attention to the situation in Iraq , while 22 % closely followed the debate in Washington about Iraq policy . Interest in the 2008 presidential campaign was unchanged from the previous week – 18 % followed news about the candidates very closely , and another 28 % followed campaign news fairly closely . Democrats continue to follow the campaign more closely than Republicans . In spite of Gonzales 's long-awaited testimony , fewer than 20 % of the public paid very close attention to the continuing saga surrounding why eight U.S. attorneys were fired by the Justice Department . This is another story Democrats have consistently followed more closely than Republicans . This past week 27 % of Democrats vs. 11 % of Republicans paid very close attention to the story . The Supreme Court 's decision to uphold the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act was followed very closely by 21 % of the public . Though the ruling may have been overshadowed in part by the events at Virginia Tech , public interest was not far below that of other abortion rulings by the Court over the past 10 - 20 years . When the Court ruled in 2000 that a Nebraska law banning late-term abortion was unconstitutional , only 15 % of the public followed the decision very closely . However , 28 % of the public paid very close attention to the Court 's deliberations on Pennsylvania abortion restrictions in 1992 . The Court 's ruling in the 1989 Webster case attracted much more public interest – 47 % followed that decision very closely . Women paid slightly more attention to last week 's abortion ruling than did men . Democrats and Republicans followed the story in about equal proportions .
In his landslide re-election victory last night , New Jersey Republican Governor Chris Christie carried 51 % of the Latino vote , a 19 point increase from his performance in 2009 , according to exit polls .
Latinos made progress on household income , poverty and jobs in 2015 after years of little or no economic gains , but they have lagged in building personal wealth , according to a Pew Research Center analysis of government data . Hispanic real median household income was $ 45,148 last year , an increase of 6.1 % over 2014 , when median income stood at $ 42,540 , the latest economic data from the U.S. Census Bureau show . Over the same period , the real median household income increased by 4.4 % for non-Hispanic whites , 4.1 % for blacks and 3.7 % for Asians . Even so , Hispanics still trailed non-Hispanic whites ( $ 62,950 ) and Asians ( $ 77,166 ) by significant margins on this measure .
Data on the prevalence of anxiety disorders is hard to come by among teens specifically . But 7 % of youths ages 3 to 17 had such a condition in 2016 - 17 , according to the National Survey of Children 's Health . Serious depression , meanwhile , has been on the rise among teens for the past several years , according to the National Survey on Drug Use and Health , an ongoing project of the federal Department of Health and Human Services . In 2016 , 12.8 % of youths ages 12 to 17 had experienced a major depressive episode in the past year , up from 8 % as recently as 2010 . For 9 % of youths in 2016 , their depression caused severe impairment . Fewer than half of youths with major depression said they 'd been treated for it in the past year .
The April 20 - 26 survey asked Americans whether states are still holding Democratic Party primaries . The response was a virtual tie between the 43 % who answered correctly that primaries are still being held and the 41 % who say they are not sure of the answer . A small minority of respondents ( 14 % ) answered that the states had ended the primary season .
However , an increasing number of Republicans subscribe to the view that military strength — rather than effective diplomacy — is the best way to ensure peace . The percentage endorsing diplomacy as the better option dropped from 46 % in 1999 to 32 % in 2004 . The movement among Democrats — in the opposite direction — has been just as dramatic . In the 1990s , roughly 60 % of Democrats expressed the view that good diplomacy was the best way to ensure peace ; that number rose to 76 % in 2004 .
About seven-in-ten ( 69 % ) African Americans say it is especially important to teach children religious faith , with 41 % ranking faith as one of the three most important values to teach . By contrast , about half of whites ( 51 % ) and Hispanics ( 54 % ) say teaching children religious faith is important , and just 30 % of whites and 26 % of Hispanics say it is among the most important values to teach children .
Libertarianism is associated with limited government involvement in the social sphere . In this regard , self-described libertarians are somewhat more supportive of legalizing marijuana than the public overall ( 65 % vs. 54 % ) . But there are only slight differences between libertarians and the public in views of the acceptability of homosexuality . And they are about as likely as others to favor allowing the police `` to stop and search anyone who fits the general description of a crime suspect '' ( 42 % of libertarians , 41 % of the public ) .
Notably , President Bush 's political standing has improved in the final week before the election . Bush 's job approval rating among registered voters has risen from 37 % in early October , to 41 % in the current survey . Mirroring the GOP 's gains among independent voters , Bush 's rating among this crucial group of swing voters now stands at 35 % , its highest point this year .
Across a range of measures , Indian public opinion is consistently pro-American . The 2005 Pew Global Attitudes survey found that about seven-in-ten Indians ( 71 % ) have a favorable view of the United States . Of the 17 countries polled in the survey , only Americans themselves hold a more favorable view of their country . And while U.S. favorability ratings have plunged in many countries , Indians are significantly more positive about the United States now than they were in the summer of 2002 , when 54 % gave the U.S. favorable marks .
With the employment picture slowly improving in recent months , fewer Americans say they are hearing mostly bad news about the job situation . At the same time , perceptions of news about prices – especially gas prices – remain overwhelmingly negative . Currently , 43 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about the job situation – down seven points from last month and the lowest percentage since June 2009 , when the question was first asked . About as many ( 42 % ) say they are hearing a mix of good and bad news , while 12 % say they are hearing mostly good news about jobs . However , perceptions of news about prices – gas prices as well as prices for food and consumer goods – have gotten worse since February . Currently , 88 % say they are hearing mostly bad news about gas prices and 59 % say the same about prices of food and consumer goods .
Wide partisan divides exist over whether the U.S. should send ground troops . Two-thirds of Republicans ( 66 % ) – including 72 % of conservative Republicans – say they would favor sending U.S. ground troops to Iraq and Syria , while just 28 % are opposed . Among Democrats , views are the reverse : 64 % oppose sending ground troops to Iraq and Syria , 33 % are in favor . Among independents , about as many favor ( 48 % ) as oppose ( 47 % ) the use of U.S. ground forces to fight Islamic militants in Iraq and Syria . Views among partisan groups are little different than they were in July 2015 .
Even more dramatically , the ethnic composition of immigrants has changed . In 1960 , the overwhelming share of immigrants were of European origin and few were born in Latin America and the Caribbean or Asia . By 2013 , a census survey found half of immigrants were Latin American/Caribbean and 27 % were Asian , while the European share of the immigrant population had fallen to a mere 13 % .
The latest national survey by the Pew Research Center , conducted Sept. 3 - 7 among 1,004 adults , finds that the contentious debate over the Iran agreement has not resonated widely with the public . In fact , the share saying they have heard either a lot or a little about the agreement has declined from 79 % in July to 69 % in the new survey . The share saying they have heard `` nothing at all '' about it has increased nine percentage points , from 21 % to 30 % .
Some 64 % of the public say investment in the space station was a good investment , about three-in-ten ( 29 % ) say it was not . Among AAAS scientists , 68 % say the space station was a good investment for the country . Those who have attended college or hold a college degree are more likely to say the space station has been a good investment for the country . There are no differences on this question by gender or race and ethnicity .
Over the course of the nation 's history , there has been a slow but steady decrease in the size of the average U.S. household – from 5.79 people per household in 1790 to 2.58 in 2010 . But this decade will likely be the first since the one that began in 1850 to break this long-running trend , according to newly released Census Bureau data . In 2018 there were 2.63 people per household .
Eight-in-ten adults in Denmark and three-in-four in Austria ( 76 % ) , for example , say they pay the church tax – responses that indicate a willingness to make the payment , even though the actual shares of Danes and Austrians who pay church taxes may be lower . In both countries , more than half of respondents ( 76 % in Denmark and 56 % in Austria ) also say religion should be kept separate from government policies .
The new Republican-led Congress is drawing harsh reviews from the public – including most Republicans . Just 23 % of Americans say congressional Republicans are keeping the promises they made during last fall 's campaign , while 65 % say they are not .
Another reason why Hispanics lag in bachelor 's degrees is that nearly half who go to college attend a public two-year school , or community college , the highest share of any race or ethnicity . By comparison , among college-goers , 30 % of whites , 32 % of Asians and 36 % of blacks go to a community college .
A multivariate analysis was used to better understand which factors matter most in predicting participation in the census . By far , age was the most important predictor of intention to participate , all other things being equal . But party affiliation , education and income also were significant predictors in the analysis . Race , ethnicity and gender were not significantly related to intended participation in the census , after controlling for other demographic characteristics . Younger Americans are less likely than older people to say they definitely will participate , even when controlling for other demographic characteristics . For those younger than 30 , the probability of saying they will definitely fill out the census form is .40 , compared with a probability of .75 for those 50 and older when all other variables are held constant at their mean . There also is a partisan divide in intention to participate ; all other things being equal , the probability of Democrats saying they definitely will participate is .75 while the probability for Republicans is .56 .
The new Republican-led Congress is drawing harsh reviews from the public – including most Republicans . Just 23 % of Americans say congressional Republicans are keeping the promises they made during last fall 's campaign , while 65 % say they are not . Nearly four-in-ten ( 37 % ) say the new Congress has accomplished less than they expected , while 4 % say it has accomplished more than expected . About half ( 53 % ) say its accomplishments are in line with what they expected .
An analysis of Republican and Republican-leaning registered voters at three points over a roughly five month period shows that by April , Trump was the preferred nominee of just 34 % of those who attend religious services weekly , including 15 % who had been steady supporters ( i.e. , had consistently supported him across the three separate surveys in December 2015 , March 2016 and April 2016 ) . Two-thirds of regular churchgoing Republicans were not supporting Trump for the GOP nomination even in April . This includes 57 % who were Trump `` skeptics , '' having not expressed support for Trump as the GOP nominee in any of the three surveys conducted mainly online among participants in the Pew Research Center 's American Trends Panel between December and April .
The public is much less certain on other aspects of gaming . Fully 47 % of all adults are unsure if most video games portray minorities poorly , while 40 % are unsure if most video games portray women poorly .
The survey finds that opinions of the 2010 health care law – which will soon face a major challenge in the Supreme Court – remain little changed : Public opinion continues to be closely divided , with views somewhat more negative than positive ( 53 % disapprove , 45 % approve ) . Americans remain split over the law 's future : 50 % say the law 's major provisions are `` probably here to stay '' while 45 % think they `` will probably be eliminated . '' The divided views of the law 's fate also are largely unchanged over the past year . In April 2014 , 49 % said the law was probably here to stay while 43 % said it would probably be eliminated .
The share of Americans who favor same sex-marriage grew steadily for most of the last decade , but public support has leveled off in the last few years . Around four-in-ten U.S. adults ( 37 % ) favored allowing gays and lesbians to wed in 2009 , a share that rose to 62 % in 2017 . But views are largely unchanged over the last few years . About six-in-ten Americans ( 61 % ) support same-sex marriage in the most recent Pew Research Center survey on the issue , conducted in March 2019 . While support for same-sex marriage has grown steadily across generational cohorts in the last 15 years , there are still sizable age gaps . For instance , 45 % of adults in the Silent Generation ( those born between 1928 and 1945 ) favor allowing gays and lesbians to wed , compared with 74 % of Millennials ( born between 1981 and 1996 ) . There also is a sizable political divide : Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are much less likely to favor same sex marriage than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 44 % vs. 75 % ) .
Additionally , in the spring of 2015 , Pakistanis were confident that the government was making progress in the fight against extremists . A 56 % majority said that Sharif 's government was making progress , with only 7 % saying the Islamabad was losing ground and 12 % saying things were about the same as in the past . As is typical of Pakistani public opinion , a quarter did not offer an opinion .
As is the case with veterans benefits , increased spending for infrastructure is supported by majorities in both parties . Since 2013 , the share of Republicans who favor higher spending for rebuilding roads , bridges and highways has increased 24 percentage points ( from 33 % to 57 % ) , and there has been a comparable increase among Democrats ( from 44 % to 64 % ) .
Nearly two-thirds of Americans ( 64 % ) say wealthy people will gain influence in Washington when Trump takes office . Just 8 % say they will lose influence , while 27 % expect the wealthy will not be affected .
On a day-to-day basis , interest in online campaign news peaked around Election Day . Fully 12 % of Americans went online for political news on November 7 , and 18 % went online the day after the election — a more than fourfold increase in the normal traffic for political news . The continuing drama of the post-election story and its fast-moving pace kept people online for election news in the week following November 7 . Between 11 % and 15 % of all Americans followed the story online on any given day during this period . The current poll was conducted as part of a larger effort to track Internet use over time . The Pew Internet & American Life Project has been conducting a daily tracking poll almost continually since March 1 , 2000 , measuring online usage . The level of campaign news consumption remained remarkably stable from March through October ; during this period , roughly 3 % to 5 % of Americans got campaign news online on a typical day . This pattern was not influenced dramatically by important primary contests in March , nor by the conventions or the fall debates .
Partisans also differ in the role they see police performing . For example , about a third of Democrats ( 31 % ) and independents ( 33 % ) say they see police in this country more as enforcers than protectors , roughly double the share of Republicans who say this ( 17 % ) . Republicans , for their part , are more likely to say police in this country fill both of these roles equally ( 67 % ) compared with Democrats ( 52 % ) and independents ( 53 % ) .
When it comes to how men view themselves , about three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they are very manly or masculine , 54 % describe themselves as somewhat masculine and 15 % say they are not too or not at all masculine . Again , race is linked to views about this : 49 % of black men consider themselves to be very masculine , compared with 34 % of Hispanic men and 28 % of white men . Views also vary by party , with Republican men more likely than Democratic men to describe themselves as very masculine ( 39 % vs. 23 % ) .
Americans followed news about the economy more closely than another other story , with 20 % citing this as their top story of the week ; 35 % say they followed news about the condition of the economy very closely . This is virtually unchanged from recent weeks , but lower than interest from earlier this spring . The economy received more news coverage than any other topic of the week , 13 % , according to PEJ . ( NOTE : PEJ 's analysis includes coverage of the debt limit debate with news about the economy ; total coverage for the two categories was 19 % ) . News about the 2012 elections—including Mitt Romney 's announcement that he would seek the Republican nomination—drew 12 % of news coverage , about as much as the economy . About one-in-five ( 21 % ) followed news about the 2012 candidates very closely , while 11 % say they followed it most closely . Roughly one-in-five also say they followed news about the current situation and events in Afghanistan ( 20 % very closely ) and news about anti-government protests and violence in some Middle Eastern countries ( 18 % ) . However , far more cited news about Afghanistan as their top story than said that about Middle East unrest ( 12 % vs. 4 % ) . Coverage of unrest in the Middle East accounted for 9 % of coverage , while news about Afghanistan made up 3 % of the newshole .
And this corresponds with a less sour assessment of the economy . While few say the economy is in good shape , the number describing economic conditions as poor stands at 35 % , the lowest since January 2008 . And while only 22 % believe that plenty of jobs are available , that is up from 10 % in early 2010 , and the highest since 2008 . However , while current conditions appear slightly better , expectations for the future have taken a turn for the worse . The share who think economic conditions will be worse a year from now has risen to 25 % , a four year high .
Students from China , India and South Korea accounted for more than half ( 54 % ) of all newly enrolled foreign students pursuing degrees at U.S. colleges and universities in 2016 .
Among all Republicans and GOP leaners , unfavorable views of Boehner rose seven points among those who agree with the Tea Party between July and October ; the rise was comparable ( eight points ) among non-Tea Party Republicans .
A majority of Hispanics oppose a range of other immigration enforcement measures . In 2008 , three-in-four ( 76 % ) Hispanics said they disapproved of workplace raids , 73 % disapproved of the criminal prosecution of undocumented immigrants , 70 % disapproved of the criminal prosecution of employers , and more than half ( 53 % ) disapproved of employees database checks to identify the eligibility of potential employees .
It 's certainly a topic on the minds of average citizens around the world . In a spring 2014 Pew Research Center survey , majorities in all 44 nations polled described the gap between rich and poor as a big problem for their country , and majorities in 28 nations said it was a very big problem . Concerns about inequality are most common in Africa , although they are widespread in wealthier parts of the world as well , especially in European nations such as Greece ( 84 % very big problem ) , Spain ( 74 % ) and Italy ( 73 % ) that were hit hard by the Great Recession . Inequality is also a high-profile topic in the U.S. , where President Obama called for higher taxes on the rich in his State of the Union address . Americans across the ideological spectrum see it as a big problem , including majorities of Democrats ( 89 % ) , independents ( 77 % ) and Republicans ( 60 % ) in the spring 2014 poll . However , the view that inequality is a very big problem is much more common among Democrats ( 59 % ) and independents ( 49 % ) than among Republicans ( 19 % ) , and there is a big partisan divide over how the issue should be addressed .
U.S. Hindus have 15.7 years of schooling , compared with 12.7 years of schooling , on average , among Christians , the majority religious group in the U.S . In some cases , this difference in attainment between religious minorities and majorities is because members of the minority religious groups were selected under immigration policies favoring highly skilled applicants . In addition , it is often the well-educated who manage to overcome the financial and logistical challenges to successfully settling in another , far-off country .
By contrast , seven-in-ten Democrats and Democratic leaners are very ( 43 % ) or somewhat ( 27 % ) confident that Mueller 's investigation will be fair . The share of Democrats who express confidence in Mueller has held mostly stable over four surveys conducted since last December .
Women 's expressed desire for the top spot varied markedly by age and race , though among all subgroups women were less likely than men to say so . Only 29 % of white women said they 'd like to be a boss or top manager someday , as opposed to 53 % of black women and 51 % of Hispanic women . And 61 % of Millennial women ( ages 18 to 32 ) said they wanted to be a boss someday , compared with 41 % of Gen-X women ( ages 33 to 48 ) and 21 % of Baby Boomer women ( ages 49 to 67 ) .
Many Americans continued to track the transition last week – 36 % say they followed transition developments very closely – but with the debate in Congress over a multi-billion dollar plan to help the Detroit automakers stave off bankruptcy , official news that the nation was in recession , and reports that more than 500,000 jobs were lost in November , the public focused even more closely on economic news . Four-in-ten ( 42 % ) followed economic news very closely ; another 38 % followed developments fairly closely . Reports about unemployment attracted the very close attention of 40 % . In addition , 34 % paid very close attention to the debate in Congress over government help for domestic automakers .
Most in the U.S. see net benefits from science for society , and they expect more ahead . About three-quarters of Americans ( 73 % ) say science has , on balance , had a mostly positive effect on society . And 82 % expect future scientific developments to yield benefits for society in years to come . The overall portrait is one of strong public support for the benefits of science to society , though the degree to which Americans embrace this idea differs sizably by race and ethnicity as well as by levels of science knowledge .
Take the past three weeks of polling on President Donald Trump . Depending on the poll , Trump 's approval rating between Feb. 5 and 13 could have been as high as 53 % or as low as 39 % . So which was it ?
Americans see priorities other than a moon or Mars landing as more pressing for NASA . About six-in-ten ( 63 % ) say one of the organization 's top priorities should be using space to monitor key parts of Earth 's climate system . About four-in-ten or more said other top priorities should include conducting basic scientific research to increase knowledge of space ( 47 % ) and developing technologies that could be adapted for other uses ( 41 % ) .
For a more recent analysis , see `` ‘ Particularly good days ' are common in Africa , Latin America and the U.S . ''
Those who have higher incomes are more likely than those who are less well-off to say the U.S. is the world 's leading economic power ( 63 % vs. 53 % ) . The same is true of those who say their country 's economic situation is good compared with those who say the opposite ( 66 % vs. 52 % ) . And those who say the condition of the global economy is a major threat to the United States are less likely to see the U.S. as economically superior ( and more likely to name China ) than those who see it as a minor threat or no threat at all .
In the wake of allegations that the Russian government used social media and other tactics to disrupt the 2016 United States presidential election , roughly seven-in-ten Russians believe their government did not try to influence the election . Only 15 % say their government did try to meddle , a new Pew Research Center survey shows .
When asked which news story they followed most closely last week , 27 % listed general economic conditions making it the public 's top news interest of the week . Some 15 % listed the stock market as their most closely followed story , and 14 % pointed to the potential bailout for the car companies . While news about the incoming Obama administration was the most heavily covered story last week , according to the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) , the national media focused heavily on the economy as well . The media devoted 15 % of its overall coverage to the nation 's financial crisis and an equal amount to news about the U.S. auto industry . In addition , 2 % of the national newshole focused exclusively on major ups and downs in the U.S. stock market . In other news , a third of Americans ( 32 % ) followed the situation in Iraq very closely last week , but only 5 % listed this as their most closely followed story of the week . Despite significant developments , namely the approval of a formal agreement dictating the withdrawal of U.S. troops from the region by 2011 , the national news media devoted 2 % of its overall coverage to events in Iraq , according to PEJ . One-in-five Americans ( 19 % ) paid very close attention to news about Somali pirates hijacking a Saudi Arabian supertanker . The media devoted 3 % of its overall coverage to this story .
Indians ' love for Modi runs across the country . Fully 87 % of Indians have a favorable view of Modi , including a strong majority ( 68 % ) who see the prime minister very favorably . And among all respondents – men and women , the young and old , the urban and rural populations and members of the three national political parties – a majority holds very favorable views of the prime minister . One exception is supporters of the main opposition party , the Indian National Congress . Furthermore , among seven global issues , Indians are most concerned about climate change . Over seven-in-ten Indians ( 73 % ) are very concerned about global climate change , compared with 49 % who are concerned with global economic instability , the second-highest response .
What about neighbors ? 76 % of consistent liberals said racial and ethnic diversity was an important factor in deciding where to live , compared with just 20 % of consistent conservatives . The latter put much more value on where many people in a place share their religion : 57 % called that important , versus just 17 % of consistent liberals .
Meanwhile , President Obama 's plan to delay the withdrawal of some 10,000 U.S. forces from Afghanistan , which he announced in March , draws bipartisan support . Overall , 58 % approve of Obama 's decision to keep the troops in Afghanistan through the end of this year , while 39 % disapprove . Majorities of Democrats ( 60 % ) , independents ( 59 % ) and Republicans ( 58 % ) approve of Obama 's decision .
As violence between Israel and Hamas shows no signs of abating , the sympathies of the American public continue to lie with Israel rather than the Palestinians . And dating back to the late 1970s , the partisan gap in Mideast sympathies has never been wider . Currently , 51 % of Americans say that in the dispute between Israel and the Palestinians , they sympathize more with Israel . Just 14 % sympathize more with the Palestinians , while 15 % volunteer that they sympathize with neither side and 3 % sympathize with both . These views are little changed from April , before the recent outbreak of Mideast violence . However , the share of Republicans who sympathize more with Israel has risen from 68 % to 73 % ; 44 % of Democrats express more sympathy for Israel than the Palestinians , which is largely unchanged from April ( 46 % ) . The share of independents siding more with Israel than the Palestinians has slipped from 51 % to 45 % .
The public expressed similar levels of interest in developments in Afghanistan and Libya . Fewer than two-in-ten ( 17 % ) say they followed news about either war zone very closely ; 7 % say news about Afghanistan was their top story , while 6 % say this about Libya .
Asked to state their views when they add up all the advantages and disadvantages of the internet for them personally , nine-in-ten Americans say the internet has mostly been a good thing for them . At the same time , 78 % believe it has been a mostly good thing for society . As has been true in previous Center surveys , the public is more likely to say the internet has been a bad thing for society than a bad thing for them personally ( 21 % vs. 10 % ) . This overall positive view of the internet is shared by vast majorities across each of the major demographic groups surveyed .
As with trust in the federal government , there has been little change in people 's feelings toward the government . As in the past , most say they are frustrated with the government ( 55 % ) , while smaller shares are angry ( 24 % ) or basically content ( 17 % ) .
With the presidential election behind them , Americans have turned their attention back to the nation 's economy . The economy was by far the public 's top news story last week . Fully 56 % of the public followed news about the economy very closely last week , and as many as 43 % listed this as the single news story they followed more closely than any other . In particular , Americans are beginning to focus more closely on the problems facing the U.S. auto industry .
There is strong resistance to any cuts in entitlement programs in order to reduce the deficit , with 58 % of Americans saying that to maintaining benefits as they are trumps deficit reduction , ( 35 % favor taking steps to reduce the deficit ) . Nearly six-in-ten ( 59 % ) put a higher priority on avoiding any future cuts in benefit amounts than on avoiding Social Security tax increases for workers and employers , with 32 % believing that avoiding tax increases is more important .
Americans are slightly more concerned about cyberattacks ( 74 % major threat ) than are Germans ( 66 % ) , and Germans are more likely to consider climate change as a major concern ( 71 % ) compared with Americans ( 59 % ) . Americans also are generally more concerned about North Korea 's weapons program , the power and influence of Russia and China and the condition of the global economy . ( For more information on global views about cybersecurity , including among Americans and Germans , see the Center 's report `` International Publics Brace for Cyberattacks on Elections , Infrastructure , National Security . '' )
In 2008 , both cellphone and landline samples had lopsided age distributions , albeit in different directions . In a September 2008 Pew Research Center survey , the unweighted cellphone sample underrepresented older adults – 9 % were ages 65 and older , compared with an ACS benchmark of 19 % – and overrepresented young adults , as 31 % were ages 18 to 29 , compared with an ACS benchmark of 21 % . At the same time , the landline sample was underrepresenting young adults ( 9 % ) while overrepresenting older adults ( 25 % ) . The story is quite different today , as cellphones are no longer the exclusive domain of the young . In a September 2015 survey , the unweighted age distribution of the cellphone sample was almost identical to ACS population benchmarks , including for those ages 65 and older ( 16 % in the cellphone sample versus 19 % in ACS ) .
Large majorities of Americans say all eight of the issues included on the survey are at least a somewhat serious problem for the U.S. And seven of these issues are considered a serious problem by roughly eight-in-ten or more of those polled . All three economic issues are rated as very serious problems by roughly half or more of the American public . Two-in-three say the large amount of U.S. debt held by China ( $ 1.27 trillion ) is a very serious problem , and six-in-ten hold this view about the loss of jobs to China . Concerns about job losses are especially common among older Americans , women , people with less education , those with lower incomes and Republicans . About half ( 52 % ) consider the trade deficit ( which totaled $ 31.6 billion in July ) a very serious problem .
As Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress battle over President Barack Obama 's economic stimulus package , the latest survey by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press finds the Democratic Party with a vast favorability advantage over the GOP . More than six-in-ten Americans ( 62 % ) say they have a positive opinion of the Democratic Party , compared with 40 % who say they have a favorable opinion of the Republican Party .
The growing controversy over the shooting death of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in Florida was the public 's top story last week , though African Americans express far greater interest in news about the killing than do whites . Overall , a quarter of Americans ( 25 % ) say they followed news about the African American teenager killed by a community watch volunteer more closely than any other story . Smaller percentages say they followed news about the presidential elections ( 16 % ) or the economy ( 15 % ) most closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted March 22 - 25 , 2012 , among 1,003 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press .
Finally , TTIP is being negotiated at a time of rising anti-EU sentiment across Europe , including in Germany . A growing number of people are questioning some of the founding principles of the European Union ( see the 2013 Pew Research Center report on the topic ) , including the right of the European Commission to negotiate all trade agreements for EU member states . Asked whether the European Union should negotiate international trade agreements on behalf of Germany or should the German government negotiate trade accords for Germany , by more than two-to-one ( 65 % to 28 % ) Germans say Berlin not Brussels should be the negotiator . Support for this reassertion of the nation state 's role in international commercial agreements is particularly strong ( 73 % ) among members of the Christian Democratic Union , Christian Social Union and the Free Democratic Parties . Backing for returning this authority to Berlin is strong , but somewhat less so ( 60 % ) , among members of the Social Democratic Party .
The president 's trip to India may have helped his image there . About three-in-four Indians express confidence in Obama , up from 48 % in 2014 . It 's been a year of high-profile visits in the U.S.-India relationship . Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the U.S. last September , and Obama traveled to India in January . The trip seems to have increased Indians ' familiarity with the American president – the share of the public with no opinion about Obama dropped from 37 % last year to 17 % today .
The terms Hispanics in the United States use to describe themselves can provide a direct look at how they view their identity and how the strength of immigrant ties influences the ways they see themselves . About half of Hispanic adults say they most often describe themselves by their family 's country of origin or heritage , using terms such as Mexican , Cuban , Puerto Rican or Salvadoran , while another 39 % most often describe themselves as `` Hispanic '' or `` Latino , '' the pan-ethnic terms used most often to describe this group in the U.S . The use of these terms varies across immigrant generations and reflects their diverse experiences . More than half ( 56 % ) of foreign-born Latinos most often use the name of their origin country to describe themselves , a share that falls to 39 % among the U.S.-born adult children of immigrant parents ( i.e. , the second generation ) and 33 % among third- or higher-generation Latinos .
A new national survey by Pew Research Center of 1,503 adults , conducted Jan. 10 - 15 , 2018 , finds that strengthening the economy continues to rank among the public 's leading priorities ( 71 % top priority ) , along with defending against terrorism ( 73 % ) and improving the educational system ( 72 % ) . However , fewer view the economy as a top priority than did so four ( 80 % ) or eight ( 83 % ) years ago . Over the same period , the share rating improving the job situation as a top priority also has declined ; 62 % say this today , its lowest point in a decade . In 2014 , 74 % viewed the job situation as a top priority and 81 % did so in 2010 . Reducing the budget deficit also has declined among the public 's policy priorities . Currently , just 48 % say cutting the deficit should be a top policy priority for the president and Congress , down from 63 % in 2014 . A year earlier , in 2013 , the share citing the deficit as a top priority was high as at any point in the past two decades ( 72 % ) .
Indian Americans are among the most highly educated racial or ethnic groups in the U.S. 70 % of Indian Americans aged 25 and older had college degrees in 2010 , by far the highest rate among the six Asian-American groups studied and 2.5 times the rate among the overall U.S. population . More recent ( 2013 ) data from the American Community Survey provides more detail : 40.6 % of Indian Americans 25 and older have graduate or professional degrees , and 32.3 % have bachelor 's degrees ; an additional 10.4 % have some college education . One likely factor : the large segment of Indian Americans who entered the country under the H1-B visa program , which allow highly skilled foreign workers in designated `` specialty occupations '' to work in the U.S . In 2011 , for example , 72,438 Indians received H1-B visas , 56 % of all such visas granted that year .
Hillary Clinton 's long-awaited announcement that she is indeed running for president represents more than just the possibility that she could become the first woman president , or even the first former first lady to move back into the White House by general election . Should Clinton win the Democratic nomination next year , she 'd be the first former Cabinet secretary in 88 years to become a major party 's official choice for president . In 1928 , Commerce Secretary Herbert Hoover won the Republican nomination and swept to victory over New York Gov . Al Smith . But things did n't go too well for Hoover once in office ( that whole Great Depression thing , you know ) , and since then , neither major party has nominated a current or former cabinet member . While a few former Cabinet secretaries have mounted campaigns ( such as former Treasury Secretary John Connally in 1980 , former Secretary of State Alexander Haig in 1988 and former Energy Secretary Bill Richardson in 2008 ) , they 've not gotten very far .
The Department of Veterans Affairs receives a low favorability rating . While the public expresses favorable views of many federal agencies , the VA received the lowest rating among 10 agencies and departments in a Pew Research Center survey earlier this year . Roughly half of U.S. adults ( 49 % ) had a favorable view of the VA and 34 % expressed an unfavorable view . As with all the agencies and departments in the survey , there were partisan differences . Republicans and Republican-leaning independents expressed lower favorability for the VA ( 40 % ) than Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 60 % ) .
People in many nations name China , not the U.S. , as the world 's leading economic power . A median of 48 % across the surveyed countries say this , while 34 % say the U.S. is the global economic leader .
Three-in-ten ( 31 % ) say they followed news about the condition of the U.S. economy more closely than any other news last week , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Sept. 22 - 25 among 1,000 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . Another 16 % cite the related debate in Washington over jobs and the deficit as their top story . Adding various story lines together , economic news easily topped coverage as well . News about the economy in general made up 14 % of the newshole while news about the debate in Washington over steps the government should take to address the situation accounted for another 13 % , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) . News about the execution of Troy Davis in Georgia also drew significant interest , with 10 % saying this was the story they followed most closely . But African Americans tracked the story much more closely than whites or the public as a whole . About two-in-ten African Americans ( 22 % ) say this was their top story of the week . That ranked nearly as high as news about the economy ( 27 % most closely ) . Among whites , just 9 % say the execution was their top story . Three times as many ( 31 % ) cite the economy as the story they followed most closely .
The gap in broadband penetration between rural and urban/suburban residents is comprised of two elements . As with African-Americans and whites , the first element is the low level of overall internet usage among rural residents—73 % of urban and suburban residents use the internet at least occasionally , while 60 % of rural adults are internet users .
Most U.S. veterans who served in the post-9/11 era say their military service was useful in giving them skills and training needed for jobs outside the military , a new Pew Research Center report finds . And in fact , veterans of prime working age generally fare at least as well in the U.S. job market as non-veterans , though there are some differences in the work they do and in which industries .
Online daters widely believe that dishonesty is a pervasive issue on these platforms . A clear majority of online daters ( 71 % ) say it is very common for people on these platforms to lie about themselves to appear more desirable , while another 25 % think it is somewhat common . Only 3 % of online daters think this is not a common occurrence on dating platforms . Smaller , but still substantial shares , of online daters believe people setting up fake accounts in order to scam others ( 50 % ) or people receiving sexually explicit messages or images they did not ask for ( 48 % ) are very common on dating sites and apps . By contrast , online daters are less likely to think harassment or bullying , and privacy violations , such as data breaches or identify theft , are very common occurrences on these platforms .
The Gallup Organization has tracked voter preferences in House races for more than half a century , and its final midterm election polls have consistently paralleled actual election results . Indeed , on average , the final Gallup Poll has been within 1.1 % of the actual vote . Similarly , surveys by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press ( as well as its predecessor , the Times Mirror Center for the People & the Press ) have consistently shown that the generic ballot closely tracks election results .2 For example , in 1994 both the Pew and Gallup surveys found a Republican majority in the popular vote for the first time in more than 40 years , foreshadowing that year 's GOP takeover of the House .
In a 2015 study that used a broader definition of the term – one that took into account how adults described their own race as well as the racial background of their parents and grandparents – Pew Research Center estimated that 6.9 % of the U.S. adult population could be considered multiracial . The 2015 study also explored the attitudes and experiences of these adults , revealing the complexities of multiracial identity . Here are five key findings from that report :
The latest update of the Pew Research Center 's regular News IQ quiz uses a set of 13 pictures , maps , graphs and symbols to test knowledge of current affairs . ( To take the quiz yourself before reading this report , click here . ) At the high end , nearly nine-in-ten Americans ( 87 % ) are able to select the Star of David as the symbol of Judaism from a group of pictures of religious symbols . And when shown a picture of Twitter 's corporate logo , 79 % correctly associate the logo with that company . At the low end , just 43 % are able to identify a picture of Elizabeth Warren 's from a group of four photographs of female politicians , among them Nancy Pelosi , Tammy Baldwin and Deb Fischer . And when presented with a map of the Middle East in which Syria is highlighted , only half are able to identify the nation correctly . Seven of the 13 items were answered correctly by two-thirds or more of the survey 's respondents . These included identifying the Star of David as the symbol for Judaism ( 87 % ) , the corporate logo for Twitter ( 79 % ) , the map of states won in 2012 by President Obama ( 75 % ) , the photos of Christie and Boehner ( 73 % each ) , a graph of the unemployment rate ( 70 % ) and the symbol for the Euro ( 69 % ) . About six-in-ten ( 62 % ) could identify the new secretary of state , John Kerry , from a photo lineup of four people . When shown a list of four state maps , and asked which of the states had approved the legalization of same-sex marriage last year , 60 % correctly chose the state of Washington . But just 50 % were able to identify Syria as country highlighted on a map of the Middle East .
Opinions on the impact of government assistance to the poor are even more partisan than views on the fairness of the economic system and hard work and achievement . Overall , the public is split with 44 % saying government aid to the poor `` does more harm than good by making people too dependent on government assistance , '' while about as many ( 49 % ) say it does `` more good than harm because people ca n't get out of poverty until their basic needs are met . '' Republicans , by 71 % to 24 % , say government aid to the poor does more harm than good . Democrats take the opposite view and by a nearly identical margin ( 74 % to 21 % ) , say aid to the poor does more good than harm . A majority of those with family incomes of less than $ 30,000 a year ( 58 % ) say government aid to the poor does more good than harm . People in higher income groups are more divided .
Although the official unemployment rate was down to 6.2 % in July ( figures from August are due out Sept. 5 ) , many economists and other analysts have concluded that that measure does n't fully capture what 's happened to the U.S. economy since the Great Recession officially ended in the summer of 2009 . An alternate measure , dubbed U-6 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , adds two more groups to the officially unemployed : people who are considered `` marginally attached '' to the labor force , in that they want and are available to work but have n't looked for a job recently , and people working part-time for economic reasons rather than by their own choice ( also called `` involuntary '' part-time workers ) .
Americans tracked the worsening oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico more closely than other major news stories last week , while the media focused on both the underwater oil leak and the investigation into the attempted car bombing in New York 's Times Square . A third of the public ( 33 % ) says they most closely followed news about the oil leak now threatening the coasts of several southeastern states . Fewer say they followed news about the Times Square investigation ( 13 % ) or the new Arizona immigration law ( 16 % ) more closely than any other story , according to the latest News Interest Index survey , conducted May 7 - 10 among 1,006 adults by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press . In terms of coverage , the media devoted 25 % of the newshole to the Times Square investigation and 20 % to the Gulf Coast oil leak , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
Some of the greatest public skepticism about trade and foreign investment is found in the United States . In 2002 , 78 % of Americans held the view that growing trade and business ties with other countries was a good thing . This sentiment was roughly comparable to that voiced at the time in the other 14 nations surveyed every year between 2002 and 2014 .
By a two-to-one margin , Americans continue to have a positive view of the United Nations . Currently , 62 % express a favorable opinion of the UN , while 31 % hold an unfavorable view . The public 's views of the UN have been fairly stable in recent years .
Half of Democratic voters in 2018 had a four-year college degree or more , compared with 35 % of Republican voters . Voters with postgraduate degrees made up nearly a quarter ( 24 % ) of the Democratic electorate , compared with 13 % among Republican voters . Combining this with the racial profile of the parties ' supporters , 57 % of GOP voters were White adults with no college degree , compared with 28 % among Democratic voters .
When it comes to America 's status as a military superpower , a majority of adults ( 61 % ) say that U.S. policies should try to maintain the country 's position as the only military superpower , while 36 % say it would be acceptable if another country were to become as militarily powerful . Mirroring age divides in attitudes about U.S. exceptionalism , younger adults are more likely than older adults to say it would be acceptable if another country became as militarily powerful as the U.S. A narrow majority ( 55 % ) of Democrats under age 30 say it would be acceptable if other nations became as militarily powerful as the U.S. , while Democrats ages 30 to 49 are divided on this question . Democrats 50 and older are more likely to say policies should try to keep it so the U.S. remains militarily superior than to say it would be acceptable for another country to gain similar military strength ( 57 % vs. 39 % ) . Though a majority of Republicans across age groups say that U.S. policies should try to keep it so America is the only military superpower , 38 % Republicans under 30 say it would be acceptable if another country became as military powerful as the U.S. , compared with smaller shares among older Republicans .
Increasingly , Americans even express less confidence in their own collective political wisdom . Just 34 % say they have a very great deal or good deal of confidence in the wisdom of the American people when it comes to making political decisions , while 63 % have little or no confidence . In January 2007 , these opinions were almost the reverse – 57 % had at least a good deal of confidence in the political wisdom of the people , while 41 % did not . The loss of confidence cuts across the political spectrum : 36 % of Republicans have at least a great deal of confidence in the public 's political wisdom ; 61 % did so in 2007 . The decline has been about as large among Democrats ( 57 % then , 37 % now ) .
By a healthy margin , people in Canada have a positive view of the U.S . Roughly seven-in-ten Canadians ( 68 % ) view their neighbor favorably , while 26 % hold an unfavorable opinion .
The current Pew News IQ survey provides an updated look at the public 's knowledge of political and world affairs . A total of 1,003 adults were interviewed Feb. 28-March 2 and asked to answer a series of 12 multiple choice questions . The margin of error for the poll is plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.A large majority of those interviewed ( 84 % ) correctly named Oprah Winfrey as the talk show host who has campaigned for Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama . Seven-in-ten ( 70 % ) were able to name the Democratic Party as having a majority in the U.S. House ; in August , 78 % could do so . An identical percentage ( 70 % ) could identify Condoleezza Rice as the U.S. Secretary of State . The percentage able to name the Sunnis as the branch of Islam competing for control of Iraq with the Shiites was 62 % , five points lower than in August and the same percentage as in March 2007 . A majority of Americans ( 56 % ) also knew that Sen. John McCain represents Arizona . Half were able to identify Hugo Chavez as the President of Venezuela , while fewer than half ( 46 % ) were aware that Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia . Only four-in-ten knew that Howard Dean is chair of the Democratic National Committee . Approximately one-third ( 35 % ) could identify Ben Bernanke as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board . And 31 % could correctly place the Dow Jones Industrial Average at around 12,000 , down from 41 % in August who knew that it was around 13,000 at the time . The level of knowledge about the Dow is now about what it was in May 2000 , when 28 % knew that the index was around 10,000 .
Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) are hearing a mix of good and bad news about the economy . Far more say they are hearing mostly bad news about the economy ( 31 % ) than mostly good news ( 7 % ) . These views have not changed much over the past two years , although the percentage hearing mostly bad news is up five points since August .
Such modest growth has not impressed many global publics , who are fairly gloomy about the current state of their economies . A median of 56 % in advanced economies say economic conditions are bad , while 55 % in emerging markets and 54 % in developing countries share this negative view . Half or more in seven of the 11 advanced economies surveyed say their economy is performing poorly . The most negative views are in Italy ( 88 % ) , France ( 85 % ) , South Korea ( 83 % ) and Spain ( 81 % ) . In contrast , 75 % in Germany , 57 % in Canada and 55 % in Australia believe their economy is doing well .
The monthly Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey , or JOLTS , provides estimates of vacancies , hires , voluntary quits and involuntary separations starting in December 2000 . ( The latest JOLTS numbers are from February ; March numbers are due to be released this coming Friday . ) The most immediately striking thing about the JOLTS numbers is how flat hiring has been for some time . February 's seasonally adjusted hiring rate — defined as hires as a percentage of total nonfarm employment — was 3.3 % , the same as it 's been since October last year . In fact , there 's been no significant improvement in the hiring rate for nearly three years . By comparison , the hiring rate before the Great Recession typically was at or near 4 % .
Today , Democrats , Republicans , and independents are about equally likely to say they have given thought to 2016 candidates . In March 2007 , Democratic voters were somewhat more attentive to the election than their Republican counterparts ( 71 % said they had given it at least some thought , compared with 64 % of GOP voters ) .
Statist views were not limited to support for government spending . Major regulatory programs also received strong endorsements : Fully 70 % favored limitations and prohibitions on child labor , even if that required amending the Constitution . Even more ( 88 % ) endorsed a law that would prevent misleading food , cosmetic and drug advertising . By 52 % to 36 % , the public also supported an amendment that would allow greater congressional regulation of industry and agriculture — and , at least in war-time , federal control of `` all profits from business and industry '' was favored by a 64 % -to-26 % margin .
The New York Fed 's economists base these estimates on their analysis of a unique dataset of millions of consumer-credit reports , updated quarterly , but their analysis stops at the end of 2012 . More recent data from the same source , though only publicly available in the aggregate , shows that the total balance of student-loan debt reached $ 1.08 trillion at the end of 2013 , up 11.8 % ( in nominal dollars ) from a year earlier .
By contrast , Sen. Ted Cruz 's popularity has soared among Tea Party Republicans while declining among non-Tea Party Republicans . Since July , as Cruz 's visibility has increased , his favorable rating among Tea Party Republicans has risen by 27 points – from 47 % to 74 % . In July , Cruz 's image was mixed among non-Tea Party Republicans ( 26 % favorable , 16 % unfavorable ) ; most ( 58 % ) had no opinion of the Texas Republican . Unfavorable opinions of Cruz among non-Tea Party Republicans have risen 15 points since then , while favorable views are unchanged .
At the same time , there is increased support for additional economic and diplomatic sanctions against Russia . Six-in-ten ( 60 % ) favor the U.S. increasing sanctions on Russia , while 34 % are opposed . Support for tougher sanctions against Russia has risen seven points from last April .
More than five years after President Calderón first ordered troops to take part in controlling drug-related violence , the public remains firmly behind the use of military units to combat drug cartels . Fully eight-in-ten say they support the use of the Mexican army in the drug war , little changed from opinion over the past several years .
A third of the public ( 33 % ) says they followed news about military air strikes in Libya by the U.S. and its allies very closely last week . By contrast , 50 % say they followed news about the aftermath of the Japanese disasters very closely . The survey was completed before President Obama addressed the nation Monday night about the mission in Libya . The current level of interest in Libya is no higher than interest in news about the nation 's economy ( 36 % very closely ) . But economic news accounted for only 6 % of coverage . In other news , 11 % say they followed news about the death of actress Elizabeth Taylor very closely ; 3 % say this was their top story . News about the movie star 's death accounted for 7 % of coverage . Similar percentages followed news about the 2012 presidential candidates , though this story received less coverage ; 13 % say they followed news about the elections very closely , while 2 % say this was the news they followed most closely . News about the early positioning garnered just 2 % of coverage .
Large increases in mobile news use have also occurred among those with lower household incomes . About eight-in-ten adults with household incomes below $ 30,000 ( 79 % ) get news on mobile , double the portion of those who did so four years ago ( 37 % ) . Even so , this is still lower than those with higher household incomes : About nine-in-ten of those with household incomes of $ 30,000 or more now get news on a mobile device .
A median of 58 % around the world hold a negative opinion about Putin . His strongest critics are in Spain ( 92 % no confidence ) , Poland ( 87 % ) , France ( 85 % ) and Ukraine ( 84 % ) . Three-quarters or more in Western Europe and North America are also critical of Putin , as are majorities in the Middle East .
While populist attitudes span the ideological spectrum , populist political parties are relatively unpopular in Western Europe . Across the surveyed countries , around four-in-ten adults or fewer have a favorable view of the populist party ( or parties ) in their nation . For example , only 34 % of people in Denmark have a favorable view of the Danish People 's Party ; 23 % of people in the UK view the UK Independence Party favorably ; and 16 % of French adults see the National Front favorably . Traditional parties do much better than populist parties in Denmark , Germany , the Netherlands and Sweden . But they face difficulties elsewhere : For most of the traditional parties the survey asked about , three-in-ten or fewer of respondents in France , Italy and Spain have a favorable view . In all eight surveyed countries , attitudes about both types of parties – traditional and populist – are heavily colored by respondents ' ideological views .
The public expresses more confidence in Barack Obama to deal with the budget deficit than either Democratic or Republican congressional leaders . About one-in five ( 22 % ) say they have a great deal of confidence in Obama on the deficit ; 12 % say the same about Democratic congressional leaders and 7 % express a great deal of confidence in GOP congressional leaders on this issue .
With a presidential election just over a week away , a new survey finds that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan 's support has declined sharply in his home country and around the Middle East . Over a year after protests rocked Istanbul and other major cities in Turkey , the survey also finds many Turks disapprove of Erdogan 's handling of them . The anti-government demonstrations were in response to plans to build Ottoman-style military barracks with a shopping mall and luxury hotels within Gezi Park , a popular green space in Istanbul . In Turkey , only about half ( 51 % ) have a positive view of their prime minister , down 11 percentage points from 2013 . In all , 55 % disapprove of his handling of Gezi Park protests , while just 37 % approve . Despite all this , Erdogan is a heavy favorite going into next month 's presidential election because of strong support from his dominant Justice and Development Party ( AKP ) and a long record of economic growth in Turkey . Amid continued unrest in Syria , Iraq , Israel and the Palestinian territories , support for Erdogan has dropped significantly in four of the seven Middle Eastern nations surveyed since last year . For example , last year , 75 % in Jordan had a favorable view of Erdogan , but in the current poll it is only 60 % . Support dropped even further in Egypt ( -26 points ) . Turkey had been a strong supporter of ousted Egyptian President Mohamed Morsi and his now outlawed Islamist Muslim Brotherhood .
India 's massive population includes not only the vast majority of the world 's Hindus , but also the second-largest group of Muslims within a single country , behind only Indonesia . By 2050 , India 's Muslim population will grow to 311 million , making it the largest Muslim population in the world , according to Pew Research Center projections . Still , Indian Muslims are projected to remain a minority in their country , making up about 18 % of the total population at midcentury , while Hindus figure to remain a majority ( about 77 % ) .
Ratings of the federal government are tracking Americans ' low opinions of the president and Congress , as well as their overall frustration with the state of the nation . George W. Bush 's approval rating has reached an all-time low of 27 % , and Pew 's March survey found just 22 % expressing satisfaction with the way things are going in the country , while 72 % were dissatisfied .
The most notable change has occurred in attitudes toward taking in refugees . In the earlier survey , 61 % said that admitting refugees escaping war and violence was a very or somewhat important goal . In the new survey , the share has increased to 73 % . Shifting views among Republicans account for most of this increase . In 2016 , 40 % of Republicans said admitting refugees was an important goal . Today , a majority of Republicans ( 58 % ) hold this view . The share of Republicans who now say admitting refugees should be a somewhat important goal has risen from 28 % in 2016 to 43 % today . The proportion who say this should be a very important goal has remained essentially the same ( 13 % in 2016 , 15 % today ) .
With less than three weeks to go before the election , there is a growing sense among the public that the tone of the presidential campaign has changed . A majority of Americans ( 55 % ) now say that the campaign is too negative . This is up significantly from 43 % a month ago and represents a dramatic change from the beginning of the primary season when only 28 % said the campaign was too negative . Perceptions of the tone of the current campaign are nearly identical to views of the 2004 presidential campaign . In October , 2004 , 57 % of registered voters said the campaign was too negative .
Despite these religious differences , Millennials celebrate many of the cultural parts of Christmas at roughly equal rates to older Americans – and sometimes at even higher rates . For instance , about nine-in-ten Millennials ( 91 % ) said they planned to buy gifts for friends or family during the 2013 holiday season , higher than the share of members of the Silent generation ( 79 % ) and Baby Boomers ( 86 % ) who said the same . And Millennials are at least as likely as their elders to say they planned to attend a gathering with extended family or friends , put up a Christmas tree or go caroling . The one exception among the cultural traditions mentioned in the survey is the sending of Christmas or holiday cards . Members of the Silent generation ( 76 % ) , Baby Boomers ( 68 % ) and Generation Xers ( 65 % ) are all more likely than Millennials ( 57 % ) to say they send such cards .
Opinions on this question differ by race and ethnicity , partisanship and education . There also are substantial age differences : Adults under age 30 are the only age group in which a majority ( 58 % ) says the priority for critical care should be patients with the best chance of recovery . Those ages 30 to 49 are divided , while a majority of those 50 and older ( 57 % ) say the priority should be for patients most in need at the moment . Just over half of Americans reports being at least somewhat concerned that they could be hospitalized due to the coronavirus ( 55 % ) and about two-thirds express concern that they might unknowingly spread it to others ( 66 % ) . But there are stark racial and ethnic , income , age and partisan differences in the shares saying this . In contrast , younger adults are more concerned than older adults that they might spread the coronavirus to others without knowing they have it – 72 % of 18- to 29-year-olds say they are at least somewhat concerned this could happen , including 39 % who say they are very concerned . Among those 65 and older , 57 % say they are at least somewhat concerned about this , including a quarter who are very concerned .
The black-white income gap in the U.S. has persisted . The difference in median household incomes between whites and blacks has grown from about $ 19,000 in 1967 to roughly $ 27,000 in 2011 ( as measured in 2012 dollars ) . Median black household income was 59 % of median white household income in 2011 , up modestly from 55 % in 1967 ; as recently as 2007 , black income was 63 % of white income .
Take food waste , for instance , most of which is landfilled or incinerated rather than composted . Eight-in-ten Americans say they reduce their food waste for environmental reasons , although only 52 % think doing so makes a big difference for the environment , according to the October survey . In fact , substantially reducing food waste would make a big dent in the amount of waste the U.S. produces : More than 40 million tons of food waste was generated in 2017 , according to the Environmental Protection Agency , comprising 15.2 % of all municipal solid waste – essentially , ordinary trash . Overall , though , Americans have n't had much success in reducing their food waste , according to our analysis of EPA data . In 2000 , Americans generated 0.6 of a pound of food waste on average each day ; that figure has crept higher ever since , reaching 0.69 of a pound in 2017 .
Youth voter turnout rates also declined from 2008 to 2012 , contrary to initial reports based on the national Election Day exit polls , which had shown the youth voter turnout rate holding steady . According to the Census Bureau report , the turnout rate among 18-to 24-year olds fell to 41.2 % in 2012 from 48.5 % in 2008 . ( Most of the post-election analysis of the youth vote focused on 18- to 29-year-olds and showed no change in voter turnout rates between 2008 and 2012 ; the Census Bureau report only provides an analysis for those ages 18 to 24 years . ) The turnout rates of adults ages 65 and older rose—to 71.9 % in 2012 from 70.3 % in 2008 , according to the Census Bureau report .
Many major economies are predicted to contract in 2020 amid the pandemic , including those of the U.S. , Japan and the euro area . In contrast , the Chinese economy is expected to achieve positive , if modest , growth . Across the 14 countries surveyed , when asked to evaluate the relative economic standing of these areas , a median of 48 % identify China as the world 's leading economic power . The U.S. comes second , with a median of 35 % seeing it as the world 's top economic power .2 Few see Japan or EU countries similarly .
But the Democratic Party has made sharp gains compared with a year ago on several issues – notably , foreign policy and immigration . Currently , 49 % of Americans say the Democratic Party is better able to make wise decisions about foreign policy , while 36 % favor the GOP . A year ago , Republicans were favored on foreign policy , 46 % to 38 % . Democrats also lead on dealing with immigration , 50 % to 39 % ; in recent years , the parties have run about even on this issue . And , with budget debates looming this month in Congress , 48 % say the Democratic Party better represents their views on government spending , while 40 % say the Republican Party does .
Public support for conducting all elections by mail has increased sharply since the fall of 2018 – from 34 % then to 52 % today – with most of the change coming among Democrats . Today , 69 % of Democrats strongly or somewhat favor conducting all elections by mail , up from just 40 % two years ago . About a third of all Democrats and Democratic leaners ( 34 % ) , including 44 % of liberal Democrats , strongly favor this proposal . At the same time , Republican support for the measure has ticked up only slightly . About a quarter ( 26 % ) favored conducting all elections by mail in 2018 , compared with roughly a third ( 32 % ) who say they support the proposal today .
Overall , the survey found a relatively upbeat outlook in Kenya , especially compared with survey findings from five years ago . In this year 's poll , 45 % said they are satisfied with the country 's direction . While the satisfied still comprise less than a majority , their percentage in the population is a five-fold increase from 2002 ; it also represents the second-highest level of satisfaction among the African nations surveyed . Views of the economy have improved even more dramatically . In 2002 , only 7 % said the country 's economic situation was good , compared with 60 % in 2007 . And Kenyans are feeling this economic progress in their own lives — 54 % say their personal financial situation is better now than it was five years ago . Among the 10 African countries surveyed , only Senegal has enjoyed more progress in personal finances .
After Trump won the 2016 presidential election , Democrats in Congress became increasingly likely to share national news on Facebook . Between Jan. 2 , 2015 , and Nov. 8 , 2016 – the day of the presidential election – just 8 % of congressional Democrats ' Facebook posts included links to national news stories . From Jan. 20 through July 20 , 2017 , however , that number doubled to 16 % . The Center analyzed these reactions and found that , in response to posts from congressional Democrats , the proportion of reactions from the Facebook audience that used the `` angry '' button more than tripled after the election . From May 1 to Nov. 8 , 2016 , roughly 5 % of reactions to national news links posted by congressional Democrats were `` angry '' reactions – yet between the election and July 20 , 2017 , fully 18 % of all reactions to Democratic lawmakers ' news links were `` angry . '' Reactions to Republican-shared news links remained relatively stable . Between May 1 and Nov. 8 , 2016 , 9 % of reactions to Republican posts were `` angry , '' compared with 10 % between Nov. 9 , 2016 and July 20 , 2017 .
Majorities of independents say the U.S. needs to continue to make changes to give blacks equal rights with whites ( 57 % ) and that significant obstacles still make it harder for women to get ahead ( 54 % ) . In addition , far more independents say immigrants do more to strengthen ( 66 % ) than burden ( 23 % ) the country . However , Republican-leaning independents differ from Republicans in their views of immigrants ' impact on the country . Among GOP leaners , 44 % say immigrants strengthen the country because of their hard work and talents ; 40 % say they are a burden on the country because they take jobs , housing and health care . A majority of those who identify as Republicans ( 55 % ) say immigrants burden the country .
The latest allegations in the child sex abuse scandal at Penn State University rivaled news about the 2012 elections and the economy for the public 's attention last week . About two-in-ten ( 19 % ) say news about the candidates for the 2012 presidential elections was their top story , while 18 % each say they followed news about the economy or the Penn State scandal most closely , according to the latest weekly News Interest Index survey , conducted Dec. 8 - 11 by the Pew Research Center for the People & the Press among 1,008 adults . With Newt Gingrich 's rise to the top of the Republican field and the Iowa caucuses just weeks away , the 2012 presidential campaign received more coverage than any other story . The campaign accounted for 24 % of the newshole last week , according to a separate analysis by the Pew Research Center 's Project for Excellence in Journalism ( PEJ ) .
