Blacks give greater priority to criminal justice reform than whites , Hispanics % who say reforming the criminaljustice system should be a top priority
Roughly four-in-ten Black , Hispanic congregants think their house of worship should now be closed because of the coronavirus outbreak Based on U.S. adults who typically attend religious services at least monthly or attended in person in the last month What do you think the current operating status of your congregation SHOULD be ? What is the current operating status of your congregation ?
Annual inflation % ) in the steuro farea and European Union
Broad public opposition to completely overturning Roe V. Wade Would you like to see the Supreme Court completely overturn its Roe versus Wade decision , or not ? ( %
Wire services account for a majority of the U.S. government news coverage in local newspapers Among newspapers that have/ do n't have a D.C. correspondent , % of stories that are produced by ...
Broad Opposition to Fed Enforcement of Marijuana Laws in States Where Legal Should federalgovernmentenfor ffederalmarijama laws in states that allow use Among those saying marijuana should be
Jewish – Party ID
Public sees strong conflicts between many groups especially partisans % who say today there are conflicts between each pair in America say today Very strong Strong Not very strong No conflicts Source : Survey ofl . S. adults conducted Nov. 29- -Dec 4 , 2017
News Interest vs. News Coverage
Chances of a ( nother ) Black President , 1993 and 2010 % saying the chances are Excellent Good 2010 : What do you think are the chances will thata president black other than Barack Obama will be elected
Most Say Inequality Is a Problem % Very big problem Advanced Greece Italy S. Korea France
Higher-income parents are more likely to have their kids in after-school activities % saying their children participate in activities or go to an saying after care program after participate school Note : Based on parents with childrenages 6to 17 . Respondents were asked aboutallarrangements they use and multiple by respondents included going home goingto a relative shouse
for Gun Gun Policy Rights More Proponents of a Voting Issue for Gun Policy Rights Proponents Voting itis Among those important who say to Protect Control
What bothers Americans about the federal tax system ? % who say Seach bothers them about the federal tax system
Figure 1 Top 10 Metropolitan Areas by Hispanic Population , 2010 ( in millions )
Global publics more likely to say relations with U.S will get worse than better , though prevailing view is that things will stay about the same Now that Donald Trump is the U.S. president , over the nextfew years relations between our country and the USS will
Referral Traffic to News Sites Average monthly ...
Bachelor 's Degree Attainment Rates Among Hispanic Adults , by State , 2011 % among Hispanics ages 25 and older District of Columbia Virginia Maryland Florida
Measuring News Interest story Percent `` very following each
Three-in-ten say increased outsourcing of jobs has hurt their job or career % saying each of the following has done more to
Measuring News Interest Percent following each Which one story closely '' ? did you
Core Conservatives make jup largest share of politically engaged in GOP Typology groups as apercentageof Rep/Rep Rep/Rep Rep/Rep Engaged
In January , women were less optimistic than men about the coming year optimistic % saying coming year will be better than past year
Missing Plane Tops News Interest by Wide Margin % following `` very closely '' follow `` most story closely '' ? you
Democratic support for increasing economic aid for needy people around the world continues to rise % who say they would increase % who say they would
National Priorities in Pakistan
Negative views of China continue to grow in U.S. % who say they have a opinion of China
Latin America , Africa More Concerned about Climate Change Compared with Other Regions Regional medians
Partisan divide on foreign government influence in midterm foreign elections % who say Russia or other foreign governments influenced the USS congressional elections
Five Million Fewer Mainline Protestant Adults Than in 2007
Majority expects greater partisan squabbling in the year ahead Do you think Republicans and Democrats in Washington more than usual ? ( % )
European Millennials Say Success Is Out of Their Hands % of Millennials who say success in life is pretty much determined by forces outside our control
Before Soleimani 's death , concerns about Iran as a threat had fallen in many countries , including the U.S .
Publics around world express little confidence in Trump but maintain relatively favorable views of the U.S Confidence in Trump Note : Percentages for confidence in Trump ware medians based on
Republicans More Negative About Their Party 's Handling of Key Issues % of Republicans , Rep senting leaners their who say party does job of repres senting their views on
Michelle Obama 5 Prominent Role
Experience in private practice , courts and elected office most common among U.S. Supreme Court justices the Court justices by prior experience Note : Justices may be included in multiple categories . Elected elections . `` Justice Department refers to roles at the
The public views impact of motherhood on a woman 's career differently in politics and business % saying it is better for a woman who wants to reach high the office or a top executive position in business to
Figure 3 Hispanic Favorability Figure Ra tings of Political Figures ( registeredHispanic voters ,
Few say current military effort in Iraq and Syria is going well % who say USS military Syria campaign againstIslamic militants say in Iraq military and Syria campaign lisgoing againstIslamic
Wide partisan divide in knowledge of Trump 's issue positions How much would you say you facing know about where stands on the important issues facing the country ?
On MSNBC , Opinion Dominates Reporting % of newshole
Hispanics ' Support for Affordable Care Act Has Support Eroded Percent who approve
Most Dreamers ' enrolled in DACA are ages 25 and younger % of currentdaca enrollees Sex Under 16 < 0.5
Those who back populist parties in compatriots Europe are generally more nativist populist than their compatriots % saying it is important to % saying it is important to have have been born here to truly our country 's important family background
Republicans More Pessimistic About Recovery Economic conditions in country today are
Hispanics public are growing as a share of K-12 public school students % of public school students , by race/ethnicity
% of 18- to 24-year-olds dropping out of high school
Voters express little confidence in Trump or Clinton when it comes to helping American workers get skills and training they need % saying each candidate would do Americans get the skills and training they need to geta
Temperament is Trump backers ' top concern about their candidate And if anything , while you support about for president , the candidate ? what , if anything , concerns you about the candidate ? Donald Trump ( R ) His tempeamenturgedicablly Lack of experience/Working with Congr ess Others ' negativity toward him Hillary Clinton ( D ) Her pasty associations ) events Others ' negativity toward her 5 Ability to govern/Working with Congr ess
H-1B visas account for a quarter of temporary employment visas issued in 2017
In sub-Saharan Africa , total number of forcibly displaced people increased sharply in 2017 Number of persons displaced due to conflict , in millions , living in
Millennials and Baby Boomers : A Generational Divide in Sources Relied on for Political News previous weekfrom ...
Obama 's rating on handling of terrorist threat drops across the board % who approve of the way BarackObama is handling the threat approve of terrorism
Growing share of social media users are worn out by the number of political posts they encounter % ofsocial media users who say they on social media
More Paid Parental Leave Linked to Wider Gender Pay Gap Full time workers ages30 to 34 Gender pay gap  20 15
Democrats maintain edge among Latino registered voters % of registered voters who say they would vote for the candidate in their USS congressional district
Half or more Trump , Clinton supporters view vote as more 'against ' opponent Would you say your choice is more a vote FOR AGAINST Aga inst other ca and idate For own cand lidate Among Republican candidate supporters Among Democratic candida te supporters
Most see China playing a more important global role , but few see a less important role for the U.S. % who think The role U.S than plays it did a less 10 important
Europeans with positive view of right-wing populist parties are more confident in Putin 's leadership Confidence in Russian President Vladimir Putin to do the rightthing Among those with a favorable view of Among those with an unfa vora ble view of
the political preferences of U.S religious groups % of US adults in leach group who lean toward or identify with the Republican Party , the Democratic Party , or another party/no lean 11 % +51
Source : Milanovic , B. , Lead Economist , World Bank Research Department , Global income inequality by the numbers .
Majority of Argentines dissatisfied with economy % who say the economic situation is
Life goals among Mormons and the general public Among U.S. Mormons things One of most important Somewhat Not How following importantis goals you ? each of the
Democrats were more likely than Republicans to donate in 2016 % of U.S. adults political who say they contributed to a candidate , political party or ooher group that supported or opposed candidates over the last
News Coverage vs. News Interest News Interest Japan disaster
Since April , More Say Russia-Ulrrine Situation Is Important to U.S . Interests How importantare events in Russia and Ukraine to the interestsof the U.S. ?
Sizable educational divide over impact of growing diversity ; smaller differences by age , race % who say an increasing number of people of many differentraces , ethnic groups and nationalities makes the U.S .
Boomer and prior generations have cast the vast majority of votes prior in generations recent elections % of presidential votes cast
Relations Between Muslims and Westerners Generally good Generallybad
Americans more tolerant of speech offensive to religion and minorities People should be able to make statements that are People should be able to make statements that are offensive to your religion or beliefs publicly offensive to minority groups publicly
Approval of Congressional Party Leaders
English proficiency among recently arrived immigrants is up since 2010 % ofU.S . foreign-born population ages 5 and older , by duration ofresidence
Number of Newly Married Adults In millions
Go online for fun and to pass the time on a typical day % of all adults ( 18+ ) in different age cohorts who answered `` yes '' to this question : Did go online yesterday for no particular reason , just for fun or to pass the time ?
% saying which will be party factor controls in Congress will be factor in vote
Rural whites more concerned about jobs , working immigrants and children 's economic future than other whites % of whites in each group saying
About half of Gen Zers and Millennials say marriage same-sex marriage , society interracial marriage are good for society % saying gay wand lesbian couples being allowed to marry is a Good thing Does n't make a difference Bad thing % saying people of different races marrying teach
Men , those without college degree , Catholics more partial to National Front Views of the National Front
Pluralities Too Negative See Coverage of the Poor , Muslims as Too Negative
Many mobile phone owners struggle with expenses and connections % of mobile phone owners who say they ffequently/occasionally
Nevadans Most Likely to Be Subject to Mobile Wiretaps Likely Number of wiretap authorizations per 500 , 000 people , 2013 Nevada
Following Election News Very Closely Democrat
Social media users experience a mix of positive , negative emotions while using these platforms % ofsocial media users who say they
Average audience for network TV Sunday morning political talk shows
Republicans More Likely to Say Immigrants Have a Negative Impact on U.S Society , Crime and Economy % saying long immigrants coming to the USS . make American society saying in the long immigrants run
In general , Americans more negative toward global economic engagement Global economic engag ementisa Bad thing beca use it Good thing beca use it
36 % of Americans say medical researchers understand the health effects of gene editing at least fairly well % of U.S. adults who say baby 's medical genetic researchers characteristics understand the health risks and beneftsof changing a baby 's genetic characteristics
Puerto Rico experienced a record net migration loss in 2018 Net migration over previous year , in thousands ' 11 ' 12 ' 13 14
Benchmark surveys show more Americans identify as Democrats than Republicans % of U.S. adults who usually think of themselves as a General Social Survey American National Election Studies
Families that share political views are more open to talking about politics % who say their family Source Survey of US adults conducted Nov. 7 - 13 2018 .
Across Europe , climate change and ISIS seen as top threats is a major threat to our country Global climate
Americans Say New Congress Unlikely to Bring Bipartisan Cooperation How much will Republican leaders cooperate with Obama in the
Across Partisan Lines , Fewer See Solid Evidence of Lines , Global Warming
Racial , ideological differences among Democrats in concerns that likely nominee is an older white man Regardless of who you supported for the Democratic nomination , would Yoy say the fact that the likely Democratic nominee is a white man in his 70S
Europeans overwhelmingly agree that UK departure would hurt the EU If the UK were to leave the European Union , this would be a for the EU
Climate Change Top Global Threat Median % saying is a major threat Global climate change
How Mixed-Race , Mestizo , 'uulatto ' Hispanics Report Their Race Which of the following describes your race ? You can select as many as apply . Note : Mixed prace includes those who volunteered that they were  mixed race for gave any two responses ( including `` Some other race without specifying which race , or volunteering `` Hispanic ' or Latino or a Hispanic origin as volunteering their race ) . Other races and Don ' it know/ Refused '' Survey origin not shown . Source : race ) . Pew Research Center 2014 National Survey of Latinos Sept. 11 - 0ct . 9 , 2014 ( N=1,520 Hispanic adults )
Majorities in U.S. expect COVID-19 treatment and vaccine ahead CONTERTIONALIZED as well as another outbreak % of U.S. adults who say each definitely/probably next 12 months There will be another outbreak The focus on coronavirus will medical treatments % of U.S. adults who say ifa vaccine were available today , they
More Progress Seen on Cancer , AIDS , Smoking than Other Health Problems % who say nation is making progress on Cancer 54
Negative voting more widespread than the 2008 campaign Would you say your choice is more a vote FOR Among Republican candidate supporters Against Clinton For Trump
Government Restrictions on Religion Highest in Egypt 2011 Government Restrictions Index score on a scale of Q ( lowest ) to 10 ( highest )
Older teens more likely to own cell phones Percentage of teen cell phone owners by age , 2004 - 2008 90 %
By and large , U.S. tariffs are among lowest in world By category of imported goods , 2017
Candidate Coverage and Candidate Visibility Barack Obama John McCain
Most Americans have little or no confidence in Trump in dealing with nuclear weapons , immigration % who are confident thatDonald Trump can
More Interest in News about Gun Debate than Immigration Debate % following very closely
Young Adults Still Are the Most Likely to Use Social Media
News Interest vs. News Coverage March 39
The share of lower-income Americans who rely on their smartphone for going online has roughly doubled since 2013 % ofU.S . adults who say they have smartphone , but no broadband at home , by annual household income
Democrats increasing ideologically divided stover increasing legal immigration to the U.S. % who say legal immigration into the United States should be and legal Increa sed Kept at its present level Decreased
Liberal Democrats now more likely to say they sympathize more with the Palestinians than with Israel % who say they sympathize more with Conservative Republicans Moderate/liberal Republicans Israel
Midterm voter turnout rates for Latinos , Asians and whites reach record lows in 2014 % of eligible voters who say they voted White
Iran Generally Losing Favor in Muslim- Majority Countries Favorable view of Iran
Consistent partisan gaps in favorable views of unions and corporations % who have a favorable view of La bor unions
U.S. public show signs of engaging with long-form articles on cell phones
Young adults use streaming services most to watch TV % of U.S. adults who say watch television
The rise of foreign students in the U.S. , 2004 to 2016
FIGURE1 Colombian-Origin Population in the U.S. , 1990 - 2013 In thousands 1,073
% following each story very closely :
Majority of Indian adults are concerned about misinformation spreading via mobile phones about exposure to false or incorrect information on their mobile phones
News Interest
Most say their state and local governments are the about right to the coronavirus outbreak % ofU.S . adults who say each of the following is
Blacks Consistently Express Lower Whites Equally How much confidence do you have in police officers in your community to treat blacks and whites equally ?
Japanese oppose too Japanese much reliance on military force to defeat terrorism Which statement comes closer to your own views ?
Half of Americans say space travel will become routine in next 50 years , but a majority would n't be interested in going % ofU.S adults who say people will/will not routinely travel in space as tourists before 2068 % ofU.S . adults who say they personally would be
U.S. public is paying far less attention to the 2020 election than to the coronavirus outbreak % ofU.S . adults who are following news about each topic
News Interest vs. News Coverage March 17 to 23
In recent years , more Jews say settlements help Israel 's security building % of Israeli Jews who say the building of settlements helps/ hurts/makes no difference to the security of Israel DK/refused
Few trust coronavirus information from Chinese government , believe China has handled outbreak well % who Trust information from the Chinese government about the outbreak Think China 's handling of the outbreak has been
Broad Support for Workers in Various Sectors Being Able to Unionize Should each be able to unionize ? ( % )
Median Home Prices $ 220 , 900 usa , coo
What Is the Main Reason Gas
Does China Consider Interests of Countries Like Yours ?
White Democrats more likely than black and Hispanic Democrats to describe Sanders ' political views as liberal % of Democrats and Democratic leaners who say the political views of each are
Pelosi 's job rating is somewhat more negative job than rating positive % who approve of how speaker of the House
Likely Voters More Ideologically Polarized than Public Overall Ideological consistency among liberal liberal Share of each group likely to vote
Somalia 's global diaspora Total number of Somali migrants living outside of Somalia in 2015 , in thousands Finland 10
Latinos ' views of Trump sharply divided along party lines % who say Donald Trump will be a
Changes in smartphone ownership , 2011 - 2013 100 %
Most Americans think more federal aid is needed to address COVID-19 impact % who say it another bill to provide more economic assistance
How Big of a Problem Is
Ifthe election were today , would you vote for
Germany 's share of Protestants has decreased at faster rate than Catholics % who are
Most see a place for anonymous sources in the news , but say they should not be used at will % of U.S. adults who say the use of anonymous sources in news stories is
Puerto Rico 's population has shrunk since 2000 Population change ( % ) 10.2 %
Would you continue to use your favorite site if there was a pay wall ?
The Growing Mobile Landscape Tablet Either tablet or smartphone
U.S. migrant origins less diverse than European Union 's % of total internationalmigrants in the US/EU who are from each of their top four origin countries United States EU , Norway & Switzerland
The gender pay gap is narrower among young adults than among workers overall Median hourly earnings of U.S. women as percentage of men 's median among All workers ages 16+
In the U.S. , absentee/ mail voting surged in the 2020 primaries % oftotal votes cast absentee/by mail
Since Recession 's End , Fewer Unemployed and More Job Openings Ratio of unemployed Americans to job openings , monthly
Men vs. women site-specific social media use Among internet users , the % of men vs. women who use the following sites 80 % 72 %
Both e-reader and tablet ownership far behind other devices % of adults who own each gadget 100 % 56 % 50 % 52 %
And Concems About the Future of Muslims in Your Country Very concemed Som ewhat concerned
Number of unauthorized immigrants in Italy has been increasing Range for the estimated number of unauthorized immigrants in thousands living in Italy , 2014 to 2017
Small share of highly active Twitter users , majority of whom are Democrats , produce bulk of tweets from U.S adults For U.S. adults with public Twitter accounts
Membership of the Association of Opinion Journalists
Figure 3 Latino Presidential Popular Vote in the 2012 Presidential Popular Election ( % who voted for
The best way to ensure peace is through military strength
Fewer than half know that most immigrants in the U.S. are here legally % who think most of the immigrants who are now living in the U.S. are here ( incorrect ) ( correct )
Democrats concerned their party will not do enough to oppose Trump % of Democrats ana Democratic leaners who are more concerned that Democrats in Congress will
Seven-in-ten Druze say the Druze is very important to them % in Israel who say being Jewish/Muslim ) Christian/Druze is very important to them
The in Europe Jewish Since Population 1939 Seven decades after the Holocaust , the number of Jews on the continent continues to decline . Jewish in Europe , population in Europe , population in millions % of world 's Jews in Europe
Americans have limited trust in scientists connected with GM food % of U.S. adults Scientists understand the
Use of online classified ads over time , by demographic group The percentage of each demographic to use online classified ads in 2005 and 2009 .
Global views of the U.S. and China are narrowing Favorable view of
North Korea a Danger to Region
U.S. admits its highest number of Muslim refugees on record in fiscal 2016 Number of refugees entering the USS by religious affiliation 90K 70
Most oppose changing Senate ' S allocation of seats , even when state population disparities are mentioned The Constitution requires that all states have two U.S. senators , the ofhow many people live in the state . Which comes closer to your view ? ( % ) All states should continue to have two senators regardless of population Constitution should be amended SO larger pop . states have more senators times was many people was the state with the smallest population . Currently , the state with the largest population population . has about 66 times population . as many people as the state with the smallest population .
Jeb Bush viewed unfavorably by most Republicans 'angry at government % of Republicans and Republican leaners who say their view of each is Ca n't Angry
Three fastest-growing counties by Latino population since 2007 are in North Dakota Latino population growth rate from 2007 to 2014 Williams County , North Da kota
Democratic voters are positive about the 2020 field , divided in preferences for the nomination % of Dem/ Lean Dem registered voters who Are looking forward to the presidential election this fall Have an excellent/good impression of the candidates Name as their first choice for the Democratic nomination
Room to grow : Internet access and smartphone ownership in India Non-internet
No Change Seen in Tone of Economic News Mixof good and bad
About one-in-four now get news from multiple social media sites % of U.S. adults who getnews on two or more social media sites
Majorities across generations except Silents I favor legalizing marijuana % who say the use of marijuana
News Interest vs. News Coverage Health care 25 Swine flu 24
3 - 20-13 # 2
Both Congressional Parties Less Happy with Both Congressional Parties Less Leaders Happy
FIGURE1 Nicaraguan-Origin Population in the U.S. , 1990 - 2013 In thousands
No Combating Party With Edge Crime ,
British Increasingly Want to Remain Part of European Union Ifa vote were held today , would vote to
Most Americans say scientists , small farm owners and general public should play major rilole in GM food policy % of U.S. adults who say each of these groups should have in making decisions about policy issues related to genetically modified.foods
Distribution of U.S . Wealth , 2010 U.S. owned wealth of all U.S. wealth wealth group
Most Americans believe it is acceptable to monitor others , but not U.S. citizens % ofus adults who say it is acceptable or unacceptable for the American governmentto say acceptable monitor
Television dominates as a news source for older Americans % of each age group who often get news on each platform Radio Social media Print newspa pers
Share of Mothers with Infants by Educational Attainment , 1960 to 2011
In Germany , roughly a quarter regard U.S. positively Among Germans
Are young adult movers renting or buying ? % of 25- to 35-year-old movers who were living in Owner-occupied . not parent ( s ) '' home
% beca who use say of global warming activity is happening mostly Among non-coll grads . Among college grads
Very Concerned About the Rise of Islamic Extremism in Your General population may
Gap Between Rich and Poor Blame Globaliza tion Gotten Worse U.S 14
Europe sees largest increase in government harassment largest and use of force against religious groups % of countries in leach region with increases in government harassment or use of force against religious groups between 2014 and 2015 % of countries in each region that experienced government harassment or use of force against
About half of U.S. public says GM foods are worse for one 's health
Wealthier countries tend to be more accepting of homosexuality % who say homosexuality should be accepted by society Netherlands Spain UK
Older Blacks More Open to Police Searches % of blacks
The Politically Interested More Likely to See Political Content on Twitter % of site users who say atleasthalfofthe politics content they see % of isrelated to government say atleasthalfofthe and politics Facebook Twitter
Wide Gaps Positions Within GOP over Party ' Wide Gaps S Positions Within on GOP Social over Issues Republican Party 's position is ... Same-Sex Marriage conservative Not About right
Party Identification Among Whites Rep/Lean Rep Dem/Lean Dem
About half of college educated adults say they have undergone fertility treatment or know someone who has % who say they or someone they know personally has sever used fertility treatments to try to have a baby Total EDUCATION HS or less
Support for Free Market System Most people are better people offin afree marketeconomy , even though some people are rich and some are poor .
Public remains divided in preferences for the overall size of government % who say they would rather have
Among Biden supporters , Black voters are most likely to prefer to vote in person on Election Day % ofregistered voters who support Biden and say they prefer to election in November Among voters who support/lean toward
Economy , Health Care Rollout Top News % following news vvery closely
Germans overwhelmingly positive on their economy The currenteconomic situation in our country is
Girls More Likely Than Boys to Block the Delete Photos From Past Relationships % of teens with romantic relationship experience
Age and Party Identification in 2006
How will history judge Obama ? How do you think will go down in history asa president ? ( % )
FIGURE3 Mexican Unauthorized Immigrant Population Declines Since 2007 Peak In millions
Figure 1 Actual and Projected Growth Rates of School-Age Children ( % change )
Death penalty support ticks sup alter years of decline support % who the death penalty for persons convicted of murder
Declining share of Republ licans say Trump needs to release his tax returns % who say Trump has a responsibility to publicly release his tax returns
Generational Differences on Marijuana % favor legal marijuana by generation
Blacks more likely than whites to favor allowing people convicted of felonies to vote after serving their sentences allowing people convicted of felonies to vote after serving their sentences
Partisan Views of the Court : 2008 - 2014 % expressing favorable view of Supreme Court
If Someday ? You Could , Would You Like to Get Married Someday ? Could , % of funmarried saying
Many say people in fother types of communities do n't share their values % ofurban residents saying most people in values that are similar to or differentfrom theirs % of suburban residents saying most people in have values that are similar to or differentfrom theirs values that are similar to or differentfrom theirs
Little Change in Women S Views Of Change Mothers Performance
Most Americans Continue to Favor Death Penalty % convicted who favor/oppose death penalty forpersons convicted favor/oppose of murder
Roughly half harassed online by person they know turned to others for support Among the 41 % of US adults who have experienced support after their most recent they incident from Someone unknown Someone known to them
Generation X : Stuck in the Middle Gen Xersare the demographic bridge between the predominantly white Baby Boomersand more diverse Millennials They also fallin the middle othe nogra phic measures % white Hispanic ) % marriedatage Millennials Genx mers Millennials GenX Boomers ( 1980 ) GenXers attitudes political and socia lissues often betweenthose more conservative Babv Boomers.and smore Jibera Mil ennials . bianer.overnment.utithutt services themselves again the middle
Figure 4 Net Migration From Mexico Below Zero After the Great Recession In thousands U.S to Mexico 2,940 Note : Estimates are for February:1995 through February:2000 . June 2005 through June 2010 and August .0009 through August 2014 Migration from the U.S to Mexico includes persons bornin
News Interest vs News Coverage Iraq Interest : percent who followed this story most closely Coverage : percent of news coverage devoted to story
Negative views of China up sharply in Canada , U.S. % who have an unfavorable view ofChina
Young adults use streaming services most to watch TV % of U.S. adults who say watch television
Confidence in Mueller to conduct a fair investigation linked to view of investigation 's merit % who are confident that special counsel Robert Mueller will conduct afair investigation into Russian special involvement in the 2016 election Somewhat Not too Not at all Among those who say senior members of Trump admin definitelyor have improper contact with Russia during 2016 campaign have improper contact with Russia during 2016 campaign
Do You Consider Yourse If ... National enizen first Muslimffret 81 46
Downward trend in public views of economic issues as top priority ' is a top priorityfor the presidentand % who say Congress
The Value of Facebook 50 %
Most adults who grew up in rural areas say there was a gun in the house when they were growing jup % saying there were guns in their household when they were growing up
Greater Interest in News from Iraq and Afghamistan Percent Following Very Closely ' _
Race , age , education differences on U.S. responsibility to accept refugees country % who say the U.S. to accept refugees into the country say Men
Write- Ins for `` Some Other Race '' Among Hispanics in `` Some the 2010 Census Percent of self-reported Hispanics who filled in the `` some other race box with Mexican 44 . 3 % Hispanic 22 7 Latin American 10 . 0 Note : Each cate gory consists of multiple , equivalent write-in res ponses For example , responses such as Mexican American ' and Mexico were coded as `` Mexican '' by the Census Bureau ; `` Hispana and  Hispano were coded as `` Hispanic Latino '' and Latin '' were coded as  Latin American ' Pue rtornqueno '' and Boricua were coded as
Broad Approval of U.S. No-Ransom Policy
Religious Affiliation of Indian Americans
Low Ratings for Obama on Economy , Foreign Policy View ofObama 's handling of Economy Foreign policy
Most Spaniards politicians have confidence in voting , less in the state and politicians % who that Most elected officials
Opinion of Economy , EU on the Rise Median among six EU member states
Age Gap in Voting Preferences Percent voting for Democratic candidate
Democrats with high science knowledge have more confidence in the scientific method % ofU.S . adults in each group who say the scientific method conclusion the researcher wants Can be used to produce any
About half of Americans say Congress is less productive than in the past % accomplished who say that , compared to recent Congresses , this Congress has accomplished say of compared
China 's increasing global role does not translate finto support for Chinese leadership China plays a role in the world today compared to 10 years ago As Less Having as the world 's leading power would be better for the world
Trump 's confirmed judges have faced more Senate Trump 's anno votes than those judges of other presidents Average number of anno votes per confirmed federal judge , by president 22 . 6 JFK LBJ Nixon Ford Carter Reagan Bush Clinton GW Obama Trump
UN gets high ratings in most countries Views of the United.Nations
Religious Affiliation in the 114th Congress Religious affiliation of the general population and the 114th Congress , by region
Views Homosexuality of Racial Discrimination , Homosexuality and Immigrants % who say Racial discrimination is Blacks who ca n't getahead the main reason why many in this country are mostly black people ca n't get responsible for their own ahead these days condition Homosexuality should be Homosexuality should be acce pted by society discouraged by society Immigrants today are Immigrants today strengthen burden on our country our country be cause of their be cause they take our jobs hard work and talents
Half of Americans say Bible should influence U.S laws ; 28 % favor it over the will of the people Bible should have influence on U.S. laws NET A great deal/some IfBible and will ofpeople conflict , which should have more
War in Iraq to Remove Saddam Made the World I a safer place More dangerous US
China But Also Policy : Strengthen Get Tough Relations on Trade , But Also Policy : Strengthen Tough Relations Trade , overy important Somewhat Not too/atall
An increasing share of U.S. immigrants have a bachelor 's degree or higher % of immigrants ages 25 and folder whose highest level of education is a 1960 to 2016
Many see their economy as weak The current economic situation in our country is
Figure 2 What Is the Main Reason You Have Not Yet Natura lized ? ( % ofLatino legalpermanent residents who say any
Voter generation turnout rates in presidential elections , by generation % of eligible voters who say they voted Greatest
Wide education gaps in 2016 preferences . among all voters and among whites Presidential candidate preference , by educational attainment All voters White voters
Teens in U.S. public schools more likely to see their peers praying before sporting events than before lunch % ofU.S teenagers ages 13 - 17 in public schools who say they see other students in their school
Reported anti-Semitic acts Reported in France , by yyear 851 808 Note : Figures include acts against
News Interest vs News Coverage June 17 - 27 Situation in Iraq 26 Ohio woman 23 Immigration 13
More men than women say having children early is better for women seeking high political office % saying it is better for a woman who wants to reach high the office to
Conservative and Reform movements do not have a major presence in Israel % of Israeli Jews who identify with
Publics in Developing Countries the Most Hopeful about Next 12 Months Over the next 12 months , do you expect the economic situation in our country to Improve Rema in the same Worsen
Most Indians stee little progress on key issues over past five years Over the past five years ,
Republicans , Democrats want Trump to be imore cautious ' in the White House When it comes to the kind of things Trump says and tweets , once he becomes president ( % )
Democrats much more likely to say there has been too little coverage of the candidates ' experience % experience of each party who say there has been coverage of the candidates ' _
McConnell , Schumer get almost no positive ratings from voters in opposing party % ofregistered voters who give each candidate a rating on a ` feeling thermometer Chuck Schumer
In India , views of Muslims less positive among Hindus Views of Hindus among
A Shift Away From Share of annual residential light bulb shipments , North
News Coverage vs News Interest Health care reform 66
Republicans consistently more negative than Democrats toward China % who say they have an unfavorable opinion of China
Very Percent Closely Following Now Similar Election News 2008 Very Closely Following Now Similar to 2008
U.S gender gap in religious service attendance narrowed as gap smaller share of women attend at least once a week Shares of women and men attending religious services at least once a week
In Millions of Viewers Late Night
News Coverage
U.S. union membership rate has fallen since 1980s % ofall U.S. wage and salary workers 16 and older who belong to/are represented by a union
Most think key institutional actors behave unethically at least a little of the time % of USS adults who think 17 % 64 % 16 %
Mexican-origin population in the U.S. , 2000 to 2017
Wide partisan divide on whether Trump or others will be really running Trump govt % who say really Other govt running people Trump of admin in charge
Global views on economy correlated - at least somewhat with performance % saying the current economic situation in their country is  good '' compared with
Views on Safety of Genetically Modified Foods , by Key Demographics % of U.S. adults who say it isgenerally safe or unsafe to eat genetically modified.oods isgenerally
Public Likes Compromise but Also Convictions Dislike
How much should the Quran influence our country 's laws ? Which of the following comes closer to your view ? Laws in our country should the teachingsof the Quran Follow va lues and princip les of Isla m , but not costrictly follow 2 %
Germans are positive about their own country 's S handling of coronavirus . but critical of the U.S. and China % of Germans who say each of the.following has done a job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak
Trust in UK Media Institutions % ofSurvey Respondents Tend not to trust Tend to trust
Comparing the Generations the Racial Makeup of the Generations % of population that is non-white
Half of Muslim Republicans say Trump is unfriendly toward Muslim Americans % ofus Muslim adults who say the Democratic Party is toward Muslim Americans DK % ofus Muslim adults who say the Republican Party is % of U.S. Muslim adults who say President Trump is
Lower-income households most likely to say federal aid package will help them % who say their own household will be helped a the federal aid package passed in response to COVID-19
Views on abortion by gender , 2019
Favorable ratings of both parties little changed since April % who have a favorable viewof the ...
Most see Germany 's role as rising or steady Germany plays a role in the world today compared to 10 years ago
Half of adults under 50 routinely check online reviews before buying new items % of USS adults who say they read customer ratings or reviews that ooher people have posted online when buying something for the first time
Clemency petitions soared under Obama 's Clemency Initiative but have fallen since Clemency petitions and grants , by fiscal year
Wide majority of conservative Republicans rate police officers very warmly % who rate police ( warmestrating ) officers on a feeling thermometer from 0 ( coldest rating ) to 100 ( warmestrating ) Very cold Somewhat cold Neutra Somewhat warm Very warm
Party Identification , 1992 to 2014
Septemb er 's S Chifting Curr ents
Throughout his first term , Trump 's approval rating has been quite stable compared with his predecessors Presidential job approval in first term in office ( % ) Reagan ( 1981 - 1984 ) G.W . Bush ( 2001 - 2004 ) G.H , W. Bush ( 1989 . 1992 ) Obama ( 2009- : 2012 ) Clinton ( 1993 - 1996 )
Disagreement on stever closer union Which statement best describes your views about the future of the European Union ? Some powers should be returned to national govts Division of powers should remain the same National govts sho uld transfer more powers to EU
Unemployment vs. G.H.W . Bush Disapproval Nationa Unemployment Rate
Support Afghanistan for Keeping Optimism Troops Rises Stable Support Afghanistan for Keeping Optimism Troops Rises Stable US will succeed in Afghanistan
Americans With College Degrees Are More Likely to Say Gays and Lesbians Are Born That Way Which comes closer to your view about why people are gay or lesbian ? % saying
Naturalization rates up among most immigrant groups in the U.S. since 2005 country % of immigrants eligible for USS citizenship who have naturalized , by country of origin
News Coverage vs. News Interest Iceland volcano ash 20
Majority of Democrats think Kavanaugh would vote to overturn Roe v. Wade % who say that if Kavanaugh is confirmed to sit on the Supreme say Court , he the Roe U . Wade decision ... Source : Survev ofU.S . adults conducted Uuly 11 - 15 2018
Black adults and young people most likely to say spending on police should be decreased % who say spending on policing in your area should be Decreased Decreased Increased Increased
Mexico was the destination for over a third of remittances sent to Latin America and the Caribbean Remittances received by country , in current U.S. dollars $ 80 billion
a majority of U.S. adults say changing a baby 's genes to treat a serious congenital disease is appropriate % ofus . adults who say changing a baby 's genetic characteristics for each of the following reasons is
Middle Easterners Fear Religious and Ethnic Hatred Religious and ethnichatred poses the greatest threatto the world
How to U.S Handle Illegally ? Immigrants Living
Among Working Parents , Fathers More Conflicted About Time Spent with Kids % saying they spend time with their children
Young Adults Are the Most Likely to Use Their Cellphones In Public Places for a Variety of Reasons % of cell owners whofrequently use their phones to Look up where information you are about going 130 18 . 29 49 you are planning to see
Partisan affiliation of U.S. veterans % who identify asm . Republican
Comparing News Interest and News Coverage News Coverage News Interest World Cup
United States Still Far Ahead in Internet Adoption Percent of adults who use the internet in the USS lover time compared with selected countries in 2013
Prison occupancy rate Selected countries 2012 or latest , % Total prisoners
Fewer Republicans say local news media are connected to community % ofus adults who say local journalists/news media
It 's now more common to have cohabited than to have married % of adults ages 18 to 44 who have
Attitudes Wide Regional Differences Abortion in Attitudes Regional about Differences Abortion Percent who say abortion should be RI , VT
Figure 2 Mexican-Born Popula tion in the U.S. as Share of Mexicans in the U.S. fand Mexico , 1950 to 2008
Most Americans resist U.S. government taking steps against misinformation online that could limit freedoms % of U.S. adults who say But more are popen to tech companies taking action than the government % of U.S. adults who say
for Gun Gun Policy Rights More Proponents of a Voting Issue for Gun Policy Rights Proponents Voting itis Among those important who say to Protect Control
Figure 3 Labor Force Participation Rate , Figure Fourth Quarters , 2007 and 2008
Middle Eastern nations generally split on how long the Syrian war will last Do you think the war in Syria will end in the next year , end in the nextfive years , or continue for more than five
Division of Labor in Households with Two Full-Time Working Parents % employedfull of parents in households where both parents are employedfull time saying Mother does more Father do es more Sha re eq ually
Quality of Life Over the Past Four Decades : The Public Rates Their Present , Past and Mean ratings on 0 to 10 scale
4 - 15-13 # 1
Most Democrats say additional aid is needed ; Republicans are divided % who say it will be necessary for the president and Congress to pass an additional economic package
Tablet and e-reader ownership % of Americans ages 16+ who own e book readers tablet computers , and at least one of those devices
Support for Free Speech , Press Freedom and Internet Freedom Regional median saying it is very important that without state/gov to censorship in our country
Turkey 's Current Economic Situation
Few Venezuelans say they trust their government Trust the national government a lot/somewhat to do what is right for Venezuela Secondary education or higher
Remittances to sub-Saharan Africa region grew the most in 2017 % growth of remittance inflows , by world region Sub-Saharan Africa 10 %
Democrats more likely to believe abortion should be legal today % ofU . adults who say that , in general , abortion should be
Majorities withdrawing in Asian countries oppose U.S. withdrawing from trade and climate withdrawing agreements of President Donald Trump 's proposed policy to withdraw U.S. support for major trade of President Donald Trump is proposed policy to withdraw support for international climate
used online platforms among U.S adults % ofU.S . adults who say they ever use the following online platforms or messaging apps online or on their cellphone
65 % of parents worry their teen spends too much time in front of screens % ofU.S . parents of teens who say they worry
Figure 1 : Hispanic Adults ' Likelihood of Lacking a Usual Health Care Provider Nativity
Year-to-year growth rates in home broadband adoption 80 % 70 %
Employmentpopulation ratios by race and ethnicity Persons ages 16 and older ; seasonally adjusted 70 %
Racial and ethnic composition of immigrant eligible voters varies across states % of immigrant eligible voters , by race and ethnicity
Blacks somewhat more likely to find positive attributes in video games , less likely to say they are a waste of time % of USS adults who say the following statements are true of most video games Promote teamwork & communication Promote problem solving & strategic thinking
About four-in-ten say their family avoids discussing politics family members share their political % who say views a few/ Almost none Almost everyone ) Mo st
Brazilians confident about nation 's economic prospects economic situation in four country
No Leader Has Majority '' 's Confidence Median view of to do the right thing regarding world affairs
GENERATIONS AND THEIF GADGETS PEWINTERNET.ORG Who owns what ? As some devices grow ubiquitous in American life others remain the domain of the young But Millennials are not always more following likely to own certain gadgets take ook at the following charts to see how your age group gadget ownership stacks up ages 18 - 34 ages 35 46 AGES 47 . 56 AGES 57 65 AGES 66 - 74 AGE 75+ following The percentage of adults in each generation who own the 18 - 34 35 - 46 47 - 56 57 - 65 66 - 74 47 - 56 57 - 65 66 - 74 18 - 34 35 - 46 47 - 56 57 - 65 66 - 74 19 - 34 35 - 46 47 - 56 57 - 65 GA-7a 18 - 34 35 - 46 47 - 56 57 - 65 66 to 74
Belief that Jesus Christ was born to a virgin
African-Americans and Latinos are more likely than whites to use Twitter % of internet users in each group who use Twitter ( total and on a typical day )
Is Iraq Another Vie stnam ? Is Iraq 4 Civil War ? Mostly a civil war Iraq willbe ano ther Vie tram
Voters ' views of $ 15 minimum wage Increasing fferelminimum wagefrom $ 7.25/hour to $ 15/hour ( % )
Women Outpace Men In College Enrollmen Share college of recent following high school completers enrolled in college the following October Hispanic Women Men 1994
Emerging Markets , Developing Nations Most Hopeful for Next Generation When children today grow up , will they be financially than their parents ? Worse off Better off
Generally , poorer nations tend to be religious ; wealthy less so , except for U.S. % who say religion is very important in their lives 100 -Senegal Asla/Pacific the Burk . Uganda Pakistan Indonesia Uganda Pakistan Russia /Ukraine Tanz .
Wide Racial Divides Persist over Fair Treatment of Blacks % saying blacks in their community are treated less fairly than whites In dealing with the police In the courts In stores or restaurants
Little Interest in Edwards Trial U.S. economy
Widespread Opposition to Drone Strikes Opposition
Government Should Help More Needy People
Public Schools in the United States Projected to Be Majority-Minority in 2014 Actual and projected share of enrollment in public elementary and secondary schools , by race/ethnicity
How Full-Time Working Moms and Dads Spend Their Time Average number of hoursper week spent on
Confidence in Obama How much confidence do you have thing in USS President world Barack Obama to do the right thing regarding world affairs ?
New internet users struggle with login or password issues Among receiving those tabletfor who became new internetusers after receiving challeng a tabletfor the survey , % who had these challeng es using their knew tablet computers Source : Survey conducted May 30-Oct. 23 , 2017 N=112 .
Large divide between Republicans and Democrats over energy priorities % of U.S. adults who say alternative addressing sources should be energy supply
Democrats Ideologically Divided Over Candidate Support for Reducing Size of Large Banks , Iran Nuclear Agreement Among possible Democraticprimary voters , % who would be to support a candidate who wants to
Who pays income taxes ? The rich , mostly Individual income tax statistics , by income group ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME % OF RETURNS FILED
Among attenders , Democrats much more likely than Republicans to say their house of worship should be closed Among U.S. adults who typically attend religious services at least monthly or attended in person in the last month , % who say the house of worship they attend most often should currently be on
Most Backlash , See U.S Long Airstrikes Commitment Leading to Backlash , Long Commitment Leading Do you think ULS airstrikes in Syria are likely to ...
Public trust in government remains near historic lows Trust the federalgovernmentto do whatis rightjustabout always ) most of the time 80 %
Jamaica , Haiti , Nigeria are top birthplaces for black immigrants in U.S. Total foreign born black population in the US. , in thousands , 2016
Immigrant share of U.S. population approaches historic high % of U.S. population that is foreign born 14.8 14.7
China more socially connected than India networking Adults who report using online social networking sites
News Interest vs. News Coverage
Emerging science and technology issues often elicit mixed reactions % of U.S adults who say teach of the following Genetic engineering Changing a baby 's genetic characteristics to reduce the risk of a serious illness that could occur over their lifetime is An appropriate use of technology too far Genetic engineering of animals to grow organs/ tissues for humans needing a transplant is about the possiblity of a brain schip implant for a much improved ability to concentrate and process
For Latino voters , similar levels of interest in presidential election by party % who say they have given a lot of thought to the 2020 presidential candidates % who say they are more enthusiastic about voting in 2020 compared to previous presidential elections Note : Based on Hispanic registered voters . Other responses not Source : National Survey of Latinos conducted Dec. 3 - 23 , 2019
Major threat to being ULS Major economic threat well to being ULS
Little Difference in How Republicans , Democrats View Their 2016 Fields % saying they have excellent/good impression of the candidates they running for their party 's nomination Democantipleconccticall ning voters
Figure Population 2 Annual Increase in Mexican- Bom Population That Entered the U.S in 1990 for Later Measured on a Quarterly Basis , 2005 to 2007
the resi in share of Democrats who describe Russia as a major threat % who say Russia 's power and influence is a major
Drop in share of Americans who say they would get a COVID-19 vaccine if it were available they to them today get today , % ofus adults who say ifa vaccine to prevent COVID-19 were available today , they
FCC net neutrality comment period marked by bursts of intense activity , long periods of inactivity Number of comments per day , April .27-Aug. 30 , 2017
Text Messaging , Voice Video Calls , Internet , Email Rank Among Most Popular Smartphone Features Average number of % of smartphone owners who used the following features on their phone at least once over the course of 14 surveys spanning a one-week period
Anti-Muslim assaults exceed 2001 total Anti-Muslim assaults in USS reported to the FBI
Online dating and finding a partner through these platforms are more common among adults who are younger or lesbian , gay or bisexual % of U.S. adults who say they
Puzzle and strategy games are among the most popular types of video game % saying they typically play teach type of game , among adults who play video games often or sometimes among
About three quarters of U.S. Catholics say society should be accepting of homosexuality % of Catholics in each country who say Homosexuality should not be
Earnings of young adults have only increased for the college-educated Median annual earnings among full-time workers ages 25 to 37 , in 2017 dollars $ 56 , 000 Bachelor's+ $ 51,500
Sizable minorities of Poles do not accept Jews , but feven more do not accept Muslims and Roma % who say that they would not be willing to accept
Several factors tie to whether people say they would be comfortable tracing or likely to engage with the entire contact tracing process % of USS adults who say they would be very or somewhat comfortable or likely to engage with all three key steps of the process ( speak , share , quarantine )  Among those who say they had seen or heard about contact tracing Among those who generally when an unknown number calls their try Among to steal people 's personal people information pretend
Gender in the Segregation Workplace in the Segregation Workplace
News Interest % following each story very closely
Those who would get COVID-19 vaccine more trusting of development process % ofU.S . adults who say they have the research and development process in the U.S. will produce a safe and effective vaccine for COVID-19 Those who would definitely/ probably
Growing shares in U.S see strong conflicts between Democrats and Republicans % who say that conflicts between Democrats and Republicans are
Blacks broadly supportive of making it easy for every citizen to vote % who say prove they wantto Everything should be done to
Parents of an older child are more likely to say child uses social media sites % ofus parents of a child age 11 or younger who say that , as far as they know , their child uses
About four-in-ten U.S. intermarried couples include one Hispanic and one white spouse % of `` opposite- sex newlywed intermarried couples that include each combination White/American Indian 3 % Hispanic/ Black 5 % White/ Black 11 % White/ Asian 15 % White/Hispanic 42 %
More Americans name the U.S. as the world 's leading economic power than China % who say is the world 's leading economic power
Certain popular videos were recommended repeatedly in this analysis % ofunique YouTube videos in this analysis that were recommended
Perceptions of Economic News
Total Adults 8 - 24 25 to 29
Blacks and Hispanics underrepresented across most STEM job clusters % of employed adults in each occupational group who are
Figure2 Mexican Immigrant Population in the U.S. in Decline In millions
Defeated House Incumbents
Party Aside , What Most Influe nees Views of the Economy ?
People Worse Off Than Under Communism ? Worse
Vote totals may rise or fall , but spending on congressional campaigns soars Votes cast and dollars spent on House and Senate elections
Republicans report hearing more about North Korea talks than Democrats % who say they have heard about negotiations between U.S. ana North Korea
ew Are F amiliar With Product Recalls
Muslims and Hindus live in biggest households Average individual resides in a household of
As more Americans go mobile , Pew Research Center will conduct more survey interviews via cellphone % of USS adults living in households with only % of interviews conducted on cellphones
New Zealand mostly has low levels of religion-related social hostilities Social Hostilities Index median scores
Trump 's ratings in Western Europe similar to those for Bush in 2008 Confidence in the USS president to do the right thing regarding world affairs
Asians Projected to Become the Largest Immigrant Group , Surpassing Hispanics % of immigrant population 1965 1975 1985 1995 2005 2015
Scientists Less Sanguine About the State of the Field % of AAAS scientists saying begin this is a Subject : for science/their scientific specialty/to begin a career in their specialty For science
FIGURE1 Puerto Rican-Origin Population in the U.S. , 1980 to 2013
Two-thirds of black social media users say that most or some of the posts they see on social media are about race % of social media users who say that of the posts they see on social networking sites are about race or race relations
Satisfaction Levels Remains Low Percent sa tisfed with the way things are going in the country today
Fewer who encounter immigrants who speak little English are bothered by this Among those who often , 'sometimes come into contact with immigrants who speak little or no English , % who
How Americans Rate France Unfavorable anorable
Allowing Gays and Les bians to Marry Legally Favor Oppose
Moderates in Congress were more likely to address local issues on Facebook % of Facebook posts by members of Congress focused on local issues , by estimated legislator ideology
More Americans think location tracking through cellphones wo n't make a difference in limiting the spread of COVID-19 than say it would help % ofU.S . adults who say that ifthe government tracked people 's locations
Turks Hold Negative View of Erdogan Views of Erdogan
Social Networking Use Has Shot Up in Past Decade
The Republican Primary Race
Voters Prioritize Positions More Than Electability % of voters who say itis more importantto of picka say candidate who ..
News Interest vs News Coverage December 8 - 14 Financial crisis 24
How discrimination big a problem against is
Across Asia-Pacific , most see growing Chinese military as a bad thing China'sgrowing military power is a for our country
Millions of Americans who have made a donations online
Environment rises as a priority , but partisan gap persists % who say should be a top priority for the president and Congress
Share of Hispanic parents who speak Spanish to their children declines across immigrant generations Do you speak Spanish to your children , or not ? Among immigrant generations
In 11 emerging economies , divisions over whether people welcome increased diversity % who say having an increasing number ofpeople of many different races , ethnic groups and nationalities in their country makes it a place to live
On several aspects of corporate leadership , many give women the edge % saying women/men in top executive business positions are better at each of the following
Wide Gay Regional Marriage , Difference in Support for Gay Marriage , 2014 Allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally Allow same sex marriage Do not allow same sex marriage
Americans recognize China 's ascent but not sold on recognize Chinese leadership China plays a more important role in world
States with the highest estimated rates of nontraditional voting in 2012 Oregon Note : Nontrad litional '' voting includes absentee voting early Sources : U.S Election Ass istance Commission , Election Administration & Voting Survey , various years ; state election
Share of Women in Newsrooms , Management Has n't Changed Number ofus newspaper jobs USS newspaper supervisor positions
Those who say they understand the tax law 's effects view it more positively % who say overall effect coming of the tax law on you and yourfamily fover the coming years wwill be Mostly Not much Mostly Among those who feel Among how they the those tax understand law who Mostly po sitive effect how the tax law might affect them Not too/Notatall well ( 26 % ) % who say overall effect coming of the tax law on the country as a whole sover the coming yyears wwill be Not too/Notatall well ( 26 % )
what AMERICANS ARE HEARING ABOUT THE ECONOMY Mix of Good and Bad News
Less Public Attention to Iraq News
Female legislators in both parties more likely to discuss sexual misconduct in their Facebook posts than men % of members of Congress who mentioned sexual
Opinion of Economy , EU on the Rise Median among six EU member states
Ad Revenue : 1975 to 2005
The South has become a more prevalent region of refugees resettling in the U.S . Number of refugees admitted each fiscal year into the U.S. , in thousands , by USS region ofresettlement South Midwest West Northeast
Republicans have less favorable view of the GOP % of each who have a favorable opinion of Republican Party Democratic Party Re publican Democrat Independ lent
Increasingly for Obama Negative Ratings Increasingly for Obama No confidence Confidence
African-Americans and Hispanics are more likely than whites to visit video-sharing and sites . % of internet users in each group who visit video sharing sites ( total and on a typical day )
used online platforms among U.S adults % ofU.S . adults who say they ever use the following online platforms or messaging apps online or on their cellphone
How Much Less Do Women Make Around the World ? The percentage difference in median earnings between men and women South Korea 37 5 % Switzerland 18.5
More see court choice as very important than after Justice Stevens ' retirement How importantis the choice of next Supreme Court justice to you personally ?
Supreme Court 's Members Little-Known How manyjustices are women ? asked April 2015 Who is the swing vote in divided cases ? August2013  Who is the chief justice ? July 2012
Apprehensions of children and their families exceed those of unaccompanied children in 2016 U.S-Mexico border apprehensions in the first sixmonths of each fiscal year
Those with high political knowledge are far more likely than others to have heard of QAnon conspiracy theories % ofU.S . adults who say they have heard or read a lot or a little about
Many in Developing Nations Struggle to Afford Food Advanced economies Emerging markets Developing economies
Is Christmas more a religious or cultural holiday ?
Positive Ratings for Brazil across Much of the Globe Do you have a favorable view of Brazil ? UNFAVORABLE FAVORABLE
Stand ling Rock Sioux Reservation : By the Numbers As President Obama visits the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation in the Dakotas , let 's look at some demographics about the reservation 's residents Median Age , 2012
Americans Views of Other Countries Percent Unfavorable Favorable 81 % Canada 20 70 16 67 15 61 26 61 54 32 Source : America s Place in the World 2013 , Oct 7-Nov 11
What Do You Consider Yourself First ?
Gun Debate Tops Public Interest % following very closely April 4 to 7
Influence of Russia on Ukraine
The typical American household contains multiple % of U.S. adults who say their household
U.S. born have long had higher voter turnout rates than immigrants
Auto thefts most likely to be reported , murders most likely to be solved % of crimes reported to the police , 2015 ( BJS ) Violent victimizations Motor vehicle theft % of `` crimes cleared by police , 2015 ( FBI )
Adults Who Give an A '' to Public Schools in their Communities Source : Pew Hispanic CenterlKaiser Family Foundation National Survey of Latinos Education January 2004
Global Climate Change : Major Threat Median percent saying global climate change is a major threat to saying their country
Ticket Splitters and Ideological Consistency Based on registered lvoters
Economic issues and corruption are seen as Russia 's biggest problems is a very big problem Rising prices
Large majorities of both parties say voters can not agree on basic facts % who say that when Republican it comes to importantissues facing the country , say most Republican and importantissues Democraticroters facing
Partisan divide in Middle East sympathies now wider than at any point in the past four decades In the dispute between Israel and Sympathize with Israel , by party the sympathize dispute Palestinians , who do you sympathize with more ? you ( % )
Measuring News Interest Week of July 28 August 3 Ted Stevens
Race for Media Exposure Edwards
the disapprove than approve of job the has done explaining future plans % policies who approve of thejob Trump has done explaining This policies and plans for the future to the American people
Fewer Heard About Rally , Recall a lot a little Nothing atall Rutgers suicide student 's suicide after secretly being vide otap ed Immigration status of
Conservatives Attracted to Small Towns , Rural Areas ; Liberals Prefer Cities Ifyou could live anywhere in the U.S. , would you prefer A .
Number of Millennials eligible to vote approaching that of Boomers Eligible voters by generation , 1996 - 2016 80 million Boomer
In Recent Years , Fewer Mexicans Have Friends or Family in the U.S Do you have friends telephone or relatives regularly ? who live in the U.S. that
Younger Blacks Have Different Views on Racial Discrimination % of blacks
Where Russia Is Liked and Not Liked Unfav orable Favorable Positive view of Russia 33 % 63 Greece
Figure 1 Voter Turnout Rates in Presidential Elections , 1988- 2012 Asians
Congressional Productivity Laws enacted by each Congress in frrst19 months of its two-year term , by type
a rising share of recent Hispanic immigrants have a college degree U.S residence
45 % of current or recent users of dating sites or apps say using these platforms made them feel frustrated Among those who have used a dating site or app in the past year , % who say it made them feel more
California leads nation in DACA recipients Number of DACA initial applications approved , in thousands
Democrats in states with stay-at-home orders are particularly likely to say health experts are influencing policy % of U.S. adults who say their state government 's policies to control the spread of coronavirus are influenced ALA great deal a fair amount Not too much/Not at all Among Rep/lean Rep living in states where stay-at-home orders were Among Dem/lean Dem living in states where stay-at-home orders were
Right-wing populist party supporters in Europe see more division since coronavirus outbreak % who say their country is now more divided than before the coronavirus outbreak Favorable view of right-wing populist party
Unemployment rate remains higher in former East Unemployment Germany than in former West , but gap has narrowed Average annual unemployment rate as a share of civilian labor force
News Interest vs News Coverage February9 - 15 Stimulus passage 44
Fiscal Cliff in Is Top Story , Investigation Limited Interest in Petraeus Top Story , Investigation
Nations Skipping the Landline Telephone
Less Partisan Views Care Ruling of Court than After Last Less Year Partisan s Health Views Care Ruling of Court Percent rating the U.S. Supreme Court favorably
Most Republicans favor building border wall ; even more Democrats are opposed building wall along entire border % who with Mexico
Slight increase in Japanese support for more active military rilole in the region Japan should in the Asia Pacificregion Note : In 2015 question read `` Some peoplesay thatJapan should
About eight-in-ten Americans think news coverage favors one side , more so among Republicans % of political U.S. adults who say news organizations when presenting the news
California , Texas and New York were the top states by number of refugees resettled in fiscal 2016 Number of refugees resettled infiscal year 2016
By 2045 , most veterans will have served after 9/11 % ofU.S veterans by era ofearliest service Pre-9/11 Post- 9/11 have started serving after the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan conclude ; they appear in veteran population projections beginning in 2022 . `` Other peacetime 97 includes those who
What People Have Heard About a lot a little Nothing Do n't know
Views of Foreign Companies in the Extractive Industries Median [ mining/oiland saying describesforeign industry companies in the Median [ mining/oiland saying petrol ] describesforeign industry well companies Provide jobs for local workers
West Germans more optimistic than those in former East about financial prospects of next generation % who say children today will be financially than their parents
Incomes
Two measures of unemployment Labor underutilization rates , Jan. ' 94-Jan. 17 ( seasonally adjusted ) 20 %
Hispanics more likely than U.S. public to believe in the American dream % who say Can most people who want to get ahead make it if they 're willing to work hard , or are hard work and determination get no guarantee of success ? Hard work and determination Compared to your parents when they were the age you are now , do you think
Public 's spoli licy priorities for 2017 % rating each a top priorityfor Trump and Congress
More Republicans rate college professors scoldly than 'warmly % who rate on a ` feeling thermometer from o ( coldest rating ) to 100 ( warmestrating ) Very cold Somewhat cold Neutra Somewhat warm Very warm
Democrats still have more favorable views toward NATO than Republicans do % ofAmericans who have afavorable opinion ofnato , by party affiliation
How is the Military Efbort in Iraq Going ? Very/Fairlywell
Percent Who See Themselves
Mexicans Believe Government Progress Against Drug Trafficking Is Declining The Mexican government 's campaignagainst drug traffickers is
Deportation Relief More Important than Pathway to Citizenship for Hispanics and Asian Americans % saying they think is MORE IMPORTANT for undocumented immigrants currently living in the U.S . Being able to live/work in U.S legally without
Despite pronounced differences in their online networks , Facebook and Twitter users are equally likely to see and post political content % of Facebook/ Twitter users who say they mostly follow
Public Divided Over Prospects for Two-State Solution in Middle East Can Israel and Palestinian state coexist peacefully ?
Double Negatives : More People Express Unfavorable Views of Both Parties % saying they have an unfavorable view of BOTH the Republican Party and the Democratic.Party
Young-Old Voting Gap Remains Age 18 - 29 D+21 Democratic D+7 All voters D+14
Voters more engaged by campaign than at this point in engaged 2008 election % ofregistered presidential voters who have given a lot of thought to ofregistered the presidential candidates
Sharp Rights Rise in Blacks ' Support for Sharp Gun Rights
Views of Gun Control : 1993- 2013 Percent of American adults who say it is more important to NEWTOWN 20
Few Latino Democratic voters know the month of their state 's primary or caucus % who of their state 's primary or caucus
Among Catholics , Democrats more likely than Republicans to rate Pope Francis positively % ofU.S . Catholics who have afavorable opinion
More Americans name Obama as best president than did so in 2011 ; share citing Clinton has declined % who say has done the bestjob as U.S. president.uuring their lifetime
the of Supreme Court 's School Views of Supreme Court 's School Prayer Ban , by U.S . Region Prayer Ban , by Age Group Percent living who approve/disapprove among those living in the 45 - 59 60 to 44
Campaign News Interest : 2008- -2012 % following campaign news very closely 60
Figure 3 Hispanic Eligible Voter and Registered Voter Trends , 1986 2012 ( in millions ) Eligible voters Registered voters
Publics in NATO countries express reluctance on Article 5 obligations % who say if Russia got into a serious military conflict with one of its neighboring countries that is our NATO ally , ( survey country ) that country
Candidate Coverage and Candidate Visibility IncCain Obama Press Coverage
Six-in-ten Trump backers say they would rather vote in person on Election Day about the same share of Biden supporters would prefer to vote by mail % ofregistered voters who say they prefer to for the election in November Among those who support or lean toward .
Younger women who have used dating sites or apps are especially likely to report having negative interactions with others on these platforms % of online dating users in each group who say someone on a dating site or app
Figure 1 Technology Use by Race and Ethnicity , 2010 Hispanics Whites Blacks
Once People Are Online , They Engage in Social Networking % ofinternetusers who use social networking sites 
the graduates less likely to believe in active , involved deity NET Believe in God , higher power or spiritual force : 84 %
Poverty rate
Wealth gaps between upper-income families and lower- and middle-income families are at highest levels recorded lower income families
Favor Allo wing
Both Candidates Among Lowest Rated in Modern Elections
Most Lebanese have unfavorable views of refugees ; Syrians are exception % in Lebanon who have unfavorable views ofrefugees the in their country
Hungarians much more negative on minority groups than other Europeans Unfavorable view of in our country
Campaign So Far
Large increase in people saying the standard of living has improved after 1989/ : 1991 living changes % who say the changes that have taken place since 1989/1991 have had a good influence on standardof
Millennial Republicans Less Critical of Government , But Nearly as Skeptical of Social Safety Net % of Republicans and Repub lican leaning independents in each generation who Republicans say .
Views of ISIS Overwhelmingly Negative Do you have a opinion of the Islamicmilitant group in Iraq and Syria known as ISIS ? Unfa vora ble Favorable Do n't know
The Republican Primary Race
Widest partisan gap in views of fairness of tax system in at least two decades % who say the present federal tax system is Not too/Not at all fair
Americans are split on comfort level with using genderneutral pronouns % ofU.S . adults saying they would be pronoun to refer to someone ifasked to do SO
Percentage of U.S Adults Online
Dec clining Confidence in Chavez as a World Leader 2007 2008 How much confidence do you have in Venezuelan
Views About Government , Private Research Funding % of U.S. adults saying private that governmentimustment will is essential scientific for scientific progress or that private investment will ensure that enough scientific progress is made , private even without governmentinvestment
Correlation between labour productivity and the use of reading skills at work
Main reason for the number of sex scandals
Death penalty support ticks sup alter years of decline support % who the death penalty for persons convicted of murder
Internet use over time
White Mainline Protestant – Party ID
Volume of Twitter Conversation Much Higher on Ferguson Story Compared with Trayvon Martin Number of posts on Twitter related to each event
Americans remain divided over government 's importance in promoting wider muse of renewables % of U.S. adults who say The private marketplace will ensure that businessesand consumers relly more on renewable tregulations energy sources , even witho ut gove rnment regulations Gove mnent tregulations are necessary to encoura ge businesses and cons umers to firely more on rene wable energy sources
Most Democratic voters feel excited by several of the party 's 2020 contenders % of Dem/Lean Dem voters who say each better describes their view of the Democratic candidates Only enthusiastic about Several candidates
Non-college whites are more likely to say outsourcing , immigrants and imports have hurt their job for career immigrants % saying leach of the following has done more to hurt their job or eareer
Most Closely Followed Story , Aug -- Oct. 2009 
Online sexual harassment : The public has a higher threshold for behaviors that constitute unline harassment '' public than for behaviors higher that necessitate a response from social media platforms Given the following scenario % of U.S. adults who say the following about each
Little Support for Most Proposals to Reduce the Budget Deficit Reduce Social Security for high-income seniors
Strong public support for a range of policies to limit carbon output , reduce the effects of climate change % ofU.S . adults who each of the.following proposals to reduce the effects ofglobal climate change
70 % of Americans say the ways to prevent the spread of the coronavirus are well understood % ofU.S adults who say that when it comes to research about the ways to prevent the spread of coronavirus
About three-in-ten Asian newlyweds in the U.S. are intermarried % of newlyweds who are intermarried
Views of Decisions to Use Military Force in Afghanistan , Iraq Decision to use militaryforce in Afghanistan Rightdecision
Majority of Americans say they are more apt to trust research when the data is openly available % ofU.S . adults who say when they hear each of the following , they trust scientific research findings
-Cold ' views of other party S members , frigid views of its presidential candidate Mean thermometer ratings Republicans Among Republicans Among
Monthly earnings of Millennials , college graduates with bachelor 's , master 's , doctorate degrees
Tech use is especially limited among those ages 75 and uu % ofus adults in each age group who say they Use the internet Subscribe to home broad band services
Majority of public approves of House decision to begin impeachment inquiry ofthe House of Representatives '' decision to % who begin an impeachment inquiry fair and reasonable during the impeachment
Small , but Growing , Number of Online News Consumers in India Total unique visitors in millions
Topics of Conversation on Twitter Surrounding Government Shutdown Percent of conversation GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
What the Public is Hearing About PEW RESEARCH CENTER Nov , 10 - 13 , 2011 Heard nothing
Perceptions of Economic Sector News % hearing
Low Republicans response rate phone surveys find similar shares of Republicans and Democrats as high response rate in-person surveys % of respondents identifying with political party
Both Republicans and Democrats optimistic about future of their parties % of Republicans and Republican % of Democrats and Democratic leaners Republicans Republican who are about Republican the future leaners who are about the future of the Republican Party
A majority of Facebook users have 10 or more categories listed on their ad preferences page
Across religious groups , black Americans say topics such as race relations should religious be a priority groups , for sermons ; most white Amer icans disagree How important is it for churches and other houses of worship to offer sermons that address political topics important such as immigration and race relations ?
News Interest
Women make up about a third of current U.S. ambassadors
Prevailing view that more international cooperation would have reduced coronavirus cases % who say Note : Those who did not answer are not shown . Full question wording : Which statement comes closer to your view even if
Military Receives High Ratings
About half or more officers say police have positive relations with the racial , ethnic groups in their communities % ofofficers saying they would rate relations between in the community they serve Whites in the community Asians in the community
Mostly negative views of Middle Eastern leaders Favorable view of
Most Venezuelans see government entities as a negative influence Influence on the way things are going in Venezuela
How Possible Republican and Democratic Primary Voters Assess Candidates ' Positions
the to Be Married as Today in 1940 Share of18- to 34-year-olds married
Share of Americans who see the federal budget deficit as a very big problem budget has fallen since 2018 very % who say the federal budget deficit is a vvery big problem in the country today
Fewer Americans see a need for European allies to increase national defense spending , but Germans are divided between increasing or maintaining budgets spending on national defense ? Should Germany
Controversy Most Heard Nothing about NPR Controversy Heard Nothing
Germans are more likely than Americans to see the fother as an important partner in foreign affairs
Wide income differences in views of job availability % who say there are plenty of community where they live
Americans with lower income are more likely to say measles vaccination should be a parental decision % ofus adults who say the following about childhood vaccines for measles mumps and rubella
63 % of American Adults Can Correctly Read This Chart Which of the following statements best describes the data in the graph below ?
Half or more of Hispanic and black adults say U.S has responsibility to provide medical and economic aid to undocumented immigrants affected by COVID-19 % who say the federal government has a responsibility to
More Financially Secure Are More Likely to Have Consistent Ideological Views By level of financial security , % with political values that are
Modern American diet has gotten bigger , heavier on grains and fat Average daily per capita calories
Younger Americans more likely to prioritize alternative energy sources % of U.S. adults who say addressing should be the more important.priority.for addressing America 's energy
News Interest vs. News Coverage Health care 26
Internet Use Linked to National Income % who use the internet 
Figure 7 Elderly Share of U.S. Population , Actual and Projected : 1960 - 2050 oftotall
Less Partisan Views of State , Local Governments % with favora ble viewof
Economy , Fair Courts Most Important the importantfor Tunisia 's future improved economic
Increasing Concerns about Extremism in Middle East Very/Somewhat concerned about Islamicextremism in our country
U.S Catholics increasingly critical of the way Pope Francis has handled sex abuse scandal % ofus Catholics who say Pope Francis is
Video watching outranks many online activities 70 %
Republican Approval of GOP Congressional Leaders Continues to Decline % who approve of thejob of .
Despite Reforms , Most Cubans Still Work for the State Share of employment in Cuba by sector
Rising share feel ideas digital technology helps their ability Rising to share their ideas digital and technology creations % of internet rusers who say dig ritaltechnology helps
Rising Number Say Religion Losing Influence At the present time , do you think religion as a whole is increasing its influence on American life or losing its influence ?
12.5 million Syrians now displaced from their homes Total number of displaced Syrians 14 million Asylum see kers in Europe
News Interest vs. News Coverage News Interest Economy Do n't Ask , Do n't Tell
What the Public Knows Percent who know Ran ool well that exploded in Gulf ? ( BP )
The political profile of congressional districts hard hit by COVID-19 has changed substantially since spring Average number of deaths per day attributed to COVID-19 in a single congressional district
Figure 2 Isolation Measure of Typical Student Nationally ,
2 - 22-2016 - 2-55 - 29-PM
Republicans optimistic economic conditions will be better in a year ; Democrats ' expectations are mixed % who say they expect that economic conditions in the country will be year from now
Women , more than men , stee gender discrimination as a major problem in the tech industry % of U.S. technology adults who industry say the following about discrimination againstwomen in the technology industry
Assessments of how presidents will be remembered are increasingly polarized by party How do you think will go down inhistory as a president ? ( % ) Above average Average Be low average
Few think the U.S. has dealt with the coronavirus outbreak well % who say the United States has done a job dealing with the coronavirus outbreak bad
Girls more likely than boys to be bullied , at school or electronically % ofhigh school students who reported being bullied the 12 months
Many Are Hopeful for Children Children will be than parents Africa Nigeria Senegal Tunisia Europe
News Interest vs. News Coverage Iraq 23 Walter Reed
About six-in-ten online daters say their experience was positive ; majorities say it was easy to find other users they found attractive , shared their interests % ofonline dating users who say their OWN personal experiences with dating sites or apps have been % ofonline dating users who say dating when they used these sites or apps that it to find people on online dating sites they or apps who
Less dissatisfaction with democracy in countries where people believe the government protects freedom of speech % who say they are dissatisfied with the way democracy is working in their country 100 % North America Mexico
Indians see emigration as a big problem .
Wide partisan gap over whether making the easier affects election security % who say elections would be changed to make it easier to register and vote Less secure Not any less secure
Measuring News Interest Week of February 26 Percent who followed this story very closely Percent who named story as their most closely followed
Wide differences in views of Roe v. Wade by education , religion , party Would you like to see the Supreme Court completely overturn its Roe versus Wade decision , or not ?
Majority of Muslims in Middle East say religion is vvery important ' % of Muslims who say religion is `` very important '' in their lives in
Turnout in U.S. presidential elections Votes cast as a share of
Heard the Most about this Week
Number of Muslims in the U. S. continues to grow Number ofMuslims in the U.S. ( in millions )
Percentage of American adults who own a desktop or laptop computer 80 %
In 2016 , most Republicans said college prepares someone well for workforce % who say a four year degree prepares someone wellfor a well-payingjob degree in today 's economy
Democrats ' Dimmer View of Year Ahead % saying next year will be better than currentyear Re publican Democrat Independent
alle to attack , driven by Republicans % who say ability of terrorists to launch another major attack on the US is than itwas at Sept. 11 attacks The same Less
Among Those Who Think TATTIP Is Bad , Americans , Germans Differ on Why Of those who say TTIP will bea bad thing ( 21 % of Americans and 36 % of Germans ) , their reasons whya free trade agreement would be bad for their country :
More Democrats than Republicans hold favorable view of Angela Merkel % who have a of Angela Merkel ...
European views of the EU and potential Brexit Views of EU Unfavorable Favorable
Most Americans say vaccines should be required for schoolchildren : a larger share of conservatives say parents should be alle to decide % of USS adults who say about the childhood vaccine for measles , mumps and rubella Parents should be able to decide not to vaccinate their children even if that may create health risks for others Heal 1thy children should be required to be va coinated to attend
More Americans get news soften from social media than print newspapers % ofus . adults who get nnww often on each platform
Greater Preference for Strong Economy over Good Democracy Which is more importantto you ?
Views about fanti- Americanism among U.S. Muslims have grown more partisan How many Muslims in the U.S. , if any , are anti American ?
Growing number of refugees entering the U.S. are Arabic speakers Number of refugees admitted each fiscal year into the U.S , in thousands , by top language groups
Figure 2 Hispanic Children , by Genera tion , 1980 2025
State Statening Local Gap in Governments Views of Federal ,
Remember Were the Exactly Time of Where You Were at the Exactly Time of Based on those age eight or older at time of event  9/11 attacks ( 2001 ) Except 2011 Osama bin Aug. Laden killing based on age 18+ ,
Millennials became the largest generation in the labor force in 2016 the labor force , in millions
Democrats more likely than Republicans to think the government should be responsible for ensuring home broadband , cellphone services amid COVID-19 % of U.S. adults who say the federal government has or does not have the responsibility to ensure all Americans have outbreak High-speed internet connection at home
Comparing News Interest Sand News Coverage News Coverage Gulf Coast oil leak 46 Economy 15
Most young voters say they know little about candidates in their district % congressional of registered voters who say they know congressional of registered candidates in say their they district Nothing atall Not too much Fair amount Great dea
Historically , women have had slightly higher rates of voter turnout than men % of eligible voters who say they voted , by gender
the Asian immigrant workers are most likely to work in high-skill jobs % of employed foreign- born workers , by importance ofa skill , 2018 Hispanic 11 16 17
50 % say today 's digital technologies make writing it EASIER
Wide partisan gap in views of immigrants ' impact on U.S . Which comes closer to your view ? Immigrants today ( % ) Strengthen country Burden country housing , by through hard talents work , ta king jobs , housing , health care
Hispanic population dispersion slows since onset of the Great Recession % of counties with at least 1,000 Hispanics in each year Onset of the Great Recession
About Half View Barack Obama Favorably ; Two-Thirds Have a Favorable View of Michelle Obama Barack Obama Michelle Obama
Silents more likely than younger cohorts to say U.S. sstands above ' fother nations Statement that bestdescribes opinion of the USS ( % ) US sta unds a bove all fother countries in the world There are other greatest co untries that are along better thanus
Some European publics view economy on the rebound , but others remain negative The currenteconomic situation in our country is good
More describe 2016 campaign as too negative ' than did in past cycles % describing presidenhalcompaian as
Most highly religious Americans would not want gene editing for their baby % editing of U.S. adults > in each group who say they would/would not want gene editing giving their baby a much reduced risk of serious disease Among those on the religious commitment index
U.S-born Hispanics
More Predict Economy Will Get More Worse Next Year Economy A year from now , economic conditions will be .
Many Americans are confident that private space companies will be profitable but skeptical they will keep space clean of debris % ofU.S . adults who say they have Not too much confidence
Measuring News Interest Which one story did you
a majority of Cuban American voters affiliate with the GOP in 2020 % of Hispanic registered voters who identify or lean
Trump has appointed a greater share of women judges than ooher Republican presidents Women as a share ofjudges appointed under Kennedy < 1
Republicans more likely to say journalists have not had to change their reporting due to COVID-19 % ofU.S adults who say they thinkjournalists have had to change the way they report the news due to the coronavirus outbreak
With Mueller 's probe into Russian election involvement completed , more Republicans are confident the investigation was fair % who are confident that Robert Mueller conducted a fair investigation into Russian involvement in the 2016 election
Far more Democrats than Republicans see gun violence as very big problem % saying gun violence in the U.S. isa
What are the most popular types of apps ? % of of Nielsen the recent month . downloaders who have used teach category of apps in the past month .
Scientists ' Perspective : Limited Public Knowledge About Science Is a Major Problem % of AAAS scientists saying ... isa major or minor problem for science in
Crossing the U.S-Mexico Border , Without Parents , at Increasingly Younger Ages Total apprehensions of unaccompanied Apprehensions of unaccompanied minors minors at the border
Leading countries for overstays Estimated foreign visitors in the U.S. at the end of fiscal 2016 with permits that expired during fiscal year , by country of citizenship
A gap in views of the availability of jobs and good jjbbs ' % saying
Gender Gap in Intensity of Potential Democratic Support For Clinton Among Democratic and Democratic leaning cindependentrecisterad voters , chance would vote for Hillary Clinton ( % ) Good chance Some chance No cha nce DK Never hea ard of
Continued Handling Disapproval of Obama S Handling of Disapproval the Economy of Obama 's handling of the economy
Republicans Field Dissatisfaction with Republicans Field Edges Up As a group , the Republican candidates are
Mothers , more than fathers , experience career interruptions % offathers/mothers saying they have done each ofthe following in order to care for a child or family member
Will social relations get better ? Tension pair on the future of social relations Expert ( N=371 ) responses Total sample
Generations Agree : College Is Worth It % considering of college graduates in each generation paidfor who say that undergraduate considering education , they it
News Interest vs. Coverage
Households Debt , with Outstanding Student Debt , 1989 to 2010
Wide Partisan Divide in Overall Views of Immigrants ' Impact on the U.S . Which comes closer to your view ? Immigrants today ( % ) Burden country Strengthen
the support among illness teens for gun policy proposals focused on mental illness % of teens saying each of the.following would be shootings
FIGUREA Most Hispanics and Asian Americans Say U.S. Immigration System Needs Major Changes % saying the immigration system needs
Globally , many are dissatisfied with the way democracy works and frustrated with Globally , elected officials but still value voting
Economic News Angers Americans Have reports about the economy made your No Yes
Favor or Oppose Ukraine Joining NA TO ? Oppose Favor
Among supportive Republicans , Trump regular churchgoers and more sporadic attenders equally Among Republican and Republican- leaning registered voters who attend religious services
Voter But Not Engagement High in High , 2008 But Not Engagement as High as in High , 2008 Given a lot of thought to election
A majority of U.S adults say medical doctors care about their patients ' interests all or most of the time % ffus . adults who say the following about medical doctors Medical doctors do each of the following
Half of Americans say local media largely get the facts right about the largely COVID-19 outbreak % of U.S. adults who say each source gets the facts right when it comes to the coronavirus outbreak almost all or most of the time
KenyaMobile
Favorable Views of the Supreme Court Move Back Above 50 %
Percent of majors in each area who say their current job is related to their major in college or graduate school
Women more likely than men to say they do most of the meal preparation , grocery shopping % ofU.S . adults living with a spouse or partner who say they Are the usual grocery shopper
Figure 5 Attendance at Religious Services by Citizenship and Legal Status , 2010 Attend religious services once a week or more
Caring for Older Adults : Who Do Caregivers Provide Help for and for How Long ? % of caregiversproviding help to an aging Spouse/partner % of caregivers that have been providing help to an
Republicans Less Favorable Toward the GOP % who have a favorable opinion of ... Republican Party Democratic Party
In Emerging and Developing Nations , Internet Users on Social Networks Adult internetusers who use social networking sites 
FIGURE3 Mexican Religious Affiliation % of adults who belong to each
Household Share of Total Expenditures
Sharp decline in share of Trump voters who say ordinary citizens can do a lot to influence the government Among voters , % who say ordinary Washington citizens can do a lot to willing influence the government say ordinary in Washington if they are willing to make the effort
Canadians more religious than French , British % who say religion is very important in their life
Public 's Policy Priorities for 2015 % rating each a top priorityfor Obama and Congress
Weekly broadcast audience for top 20 NPR-affiliated radio stations
Americans participate in a wide range of community groups % who participate in Church groups or other religious orgs a charitable or volunteer organization 18
No consensus on best type of education It is more impor tant that the schools in our country teach students skills and encourage discipline independently and think
Perceptions of U.S. economic power rebound in Europe Medians world 's leading across five European nations saying is the world 's leading economic European power
Figure 1.3 But Native Born Young Latinos Do Worse Than Foreign Born on Other Measures Knows someone in a gang Got into a fight in the last year
Are Bribes Important for Getting Ahead ? getting On a scale ahead ofo in to life ? 10 , how Percent importantis saying sgiving or 10 bribesto Saying that corrupt leadersare a very big problem
FIGURE1 Growth in Unauthorized Immigration Has Leveled Off In millions
Figure 7 Annual Increase in Employment of Foreign Quarterly Bom Basis , Hispanics in the Construction Industry Measured on a Quarterly Basis , 2004 to 2007
the first time since 9/11 , government 's job rating on terrorism turns negative How wellis gout doing reducing threatof terrorism ? ( % ,
Opinion Differences Between Public and Scientists % of U.S. adults and AAAS scientists saying each of the following Biomedical sciences Safe to eat genetically Climate , energy , space sciences Favor increased use of fracking
LUN approval would LUN approval difficult make it Should UN approval have
Partisan gaps on effects of gun ownership on crime , mass shootings % saying ifmore Americans owned guns , there would be % saying ifit were harder for people to legally
Supreme Negatively Court Viewed More Supreme Negatively
Most Continue to Say They Are Living Falling Behind the Say Cost They of Living Family income relative to the cost of living
Lower-income adults more likely to use cash for their typical weekly purchases % ofU.S . adults who say they make week using cash , by annual household income All or almost all of their purchases None of their purchases
Americans Have More Muted Concerns about Government Monitoring of their Own Digital Behavior % of U.S. adults who say they are  very/ 'somewhat '' or  not very/ not at all concerned '' about g overnment they surveillance of their own data and electronic communications
Estimated unauthorized immigrant population in the U.S. rises , falls , then stabilizes In millions
the Possible Democratic Primary Voters View Candidate Positions would be possible to Democraticprimary support a candidate who voters , wants to
Most whites I but only around a third of blacks I support the death penalty the death penalty for persons convicted ofmurder
Almost Half of Hispanic College Students Attend Public Two-Year Schools Post secondary enrollment by race/ethnicity and school type ( 2013
Americans View Large Amount of Debt Held by China and Loss of Jobs as Most Serious Concerns How seriousof aproblem is and
U.S. House
U.S. Border apprehensions of Mexicans fall to historic lows
Islam 's Influence in Politics Is . Negative Positive Based on Muslims only , Respondents who have positive view ofIslam 's influence include those who say Islam is playing large thing role in their
Figure 1 Internet Trends , Use and Cellphone Ownership Trends , 2009 2012 ( % saying they juse the internet or send or receive email at least occasionally ) Internet use is on the rise among all racial and ethnic groups Uses the internet
Broad partisan mistrust of the opposing party 's commitment to fair elections % who say the Republican Party is committed to making sure elections in the USS are fair and accurate % who say the Democratic Party is committed to making sure elections in the USS are fair and accurate
The urban-uuuubban-ural divide extends to politics and perspectives % of registered voters residents % of saying most people who Note For party tridentifical tion figures `` urban , `` suburban '' and `` rural '' referto the type of
Majority of Republicans say major technology companies support the views of liberals over conservatives % of U.S. adults who say major technology companies support the views of
By narrow margin , public wants Senate trial to result in Trump 's removal from office % who think the Senate impeachment trial should result in % who say during his time in office , or while running for president , Trump has done things that are How confident are you that will be fair and reasonable during the impeachment trial ? ( % )
46 % of Americans muse digital voice assistants % of U.S. adults who say they ever Use voice assistants % ofus adults who use voice assistants on
Majority of Americans find it acceptable for law enforcement to use facial recognition to assess threats in public spaces % FFUSS adults who say the use offacial recognition technology in the following situations is in public spaces
Who is the World 's Leading
Percentage of Internet Users Who Listen to Podcasts
News Interest vs. News Coverage News Interest Economy
Across racial , ethnic groups , more see pressure rather than genuine concern as contributing a great deal to companies ' statements about race Among the 80 % of U.S. adults who say they have seen or heard companies and organizations making public statements about race or racial inequality in the past few months , % who say the following have contributed a great deal to these recent public statements
the say they have had a major '
Trump cited as top reason 2017 will be better and worse than 2016 Among those who say 2017 will be better than 2016 , why do you think this ? Donald administra Trump/ General optimism Among those who say 2017 will be worse than 2016 , why do you think this ?
Number of online activities done on a typical day
Russians Unaccepting of Homosexuality and Extramarital Affairs % believe that is morally acceptable , morally unacceptable , or not a moral issue
Will the country elect a female president in your lifetime ? % of voters who say
Philippines , Japan and Vietnam Concerned about Territorial Disputes with China Concern about territrialdisputes with China
Nearly two-thirds of adults find it hard to tell what 's true when elected officials speak % of U.S. adults who say it is to tell the difference between what 's true
Early on , GOP Voters Are More Engaged presidextal.cam.idiates ..
for Mainland U.S. Leaving Than Arriving Net migration between Puerto Rico and the U.S. 05 1906 ' 07 I'S 109 ' 10 11 12 13 -10
Republicans More Satisfied With Their Field Than in 2007 or 2011 % of Rep/Rep-leaning voters who have an excellent/good running impression of the candidates
Many Tunisians , Nigerians and Kenyans have made preparations to migrate Among those who plan to migrate : In preparation to move to another country , % who have Gathered information about moving to another country Saved or borrowed money Applied for necessary documents , such as a passport or visa Taken all three preparation steps
How often users click on advertisements 60 50 45 40 15
Changing Attitudes Share in each group for whom it would be very hard to give up their cell phone 90 % 80 %
In Public 's View , GOP-Led Congress Fails to Impress % who say in Congress are keeping campaign promises .. Reps 1995 Dems 2007 Reps 2011 Reps 2015 In itsfirst 100 days , has new Congress accomplished ...
Christmas and the Holidays : What Do You Most Look Forward To ?
No Muslim-majority nation was among top five U.S. refugee 2018 origin countries in 2018 origin Top five nationalities ofrefugee admissions into the USS Ukraine 1 200 Note : Fiscal year 2018 is partial only ( Oct. 1 , 2017 March 31 2018 ) . Data do not include special immigrant visas and certain humanitarian parole
New Zealand has low levels of government restrictions on religion Government Restrictions Index median scores ( 10-point scale ) , 2007 to 2016
Age of Head , 1989 to 2010
Among white Christians , regular churchgoers approve matching of Trump 's exceeding job performance at rates matching or exceeding less-frequent attenders % who approve of the way Donald Trump is handling his job as president
Growing share of Democrats say news media has a positive effect on the way things are going in the U.S. % who say the national news media has a effect on the way things are going in the country
the Hispanics voted in key races for U.S. Senate and governor in 2018 % of Hispanics who say they voted for the candidate
Main Source for News Television
the overdose death rate rose 40 % the among blacks between 2015 and 2016 Age-adjusted drug overdose death rate per 100 , LOOO USS residents , by race/ethnicity
Younger teens more likely to phones have portable gaming devices than mobile phones Ownership of portable gaming devices vs cell phones by age 90 %
White U.S. teens are more likely than nonwhite teens to be employed , especially in the summer
Babies born to Muslims will begin to outnumber Christian births by 2035 Estimated during number of babies born , period by mother 's religion , during each five-year period 235 MILLION
Most in Pacific states see climate change as affecting their local area % ofUS adults who say climate change is affecting their local community
Those who closely follow COVID-19 news are more likely to talk about the outbreak most or almost all of the time Among those who follow COVID-19 news or over the phone , most or almost all ofthe time
Figure 1 Confidence in the Legal System , by Race and Ethnicity Question : How confiden are you that ... 7.96 ) Agreat deal/A fair amount Police enforcing officers in your community will do a good jjjbb Police officers in your community will not use excessive Courts inyour community will treat Hispanics fairly
Economic Issues Top Voters Agenda Percent rating each as `` very important '' to their vote
Atheists more likely than Americans overall to find meaning in finances , hobbies In an open-ended question , % of U.S. adults who mention when describing what provides them
Majorities in former West and East Germany say East has not yet achieved same living standards as West % who say East Germany achieved the same standard of living as West Germany
Government harassment of Muslims most prevalent in Middle East-North Africa , Europe % of 'countries in region where government harassment of Muslims occurred
U.S. colleges are admitting applications more students , but not enough to keep pace with soaring number of applications Number of applications and admissions by 2017 admission rate % of applicants admitted in 2017
Democratic voters who backed Sanders in primaries less likely to say party will unite behind Biden % of Dem/Lean Dem registered voters who say Among those who , in January , supported
Party fand Education Percent who believe global warming is happening due to human activity
Little confidence in Putin , low opinions of Russia Regional medians saying Asia Pacific Middle East
About Three-in-Ten Closely Following Fighting Between Israel & Hamas % following each story very closely
Sectarian Divide in Views of
Support for Suicide Bombing in Defense of Islam
These AP and NWP teachers tend to rate students ' specific writing skills as good '' or `` fair '' Overall , how would you rate your students in their ability to do each of the following ? Excellent Very good Good Fair Poor
Republican Catholics on the Rise Among Catholic House members , Republicans outnumber Democrats for the first time in recent
Broad disapproval of China 's response to COVID-19 % who say China has done a/an jjbb in dealing with the coronavirus outbreak
Lebanese split along religious Iran lines on views of Saudi Arabia and Iran Favorable view of in Lebanon
Trump supporters most likely to view U.S global economic ties negatively % saying USS involvement in the global economy is Primary preference among Primary preference among
Pakistanis critical of extremist groups , although many offer no opinion Views of Islamic extremistgroups
Most in North America and Western Europe express little confidence in Putin % who have in Russian President Vladimir Putin to do the right thing regarding world affairs
Drug addiction is seen as a pressing problem in urban and rural communities % saying drug addiction is a in their local community
Voters diverge on how U.S. has changed and where it 's headed Compared with 50 years ago , life . people like you in America today is The future of the next generation of Americans
Latin Americans Approve of U.S-Cuba the but Low Confidence in Castro Median across six Latin American countries re-establishing Approve U.S .
Democrats are more likely than Republicans to view online harassment as a major problem
Number of immigrants in UK more than doubles in 25 years Total foreign born in the UK
Greater confidence in Trump among European right-wing populist party supporters % who have confidence in U.S. President Donald Trump to do the right thing regarding world affairs
50-year predictions % of USS adults who feel that the following will/wo n't happen in the next 50 years
Public Closely Divided on Role of Churches in Science Policy Debates
High-income much and well-educated likely internet government services High-income users are and much information more likely online to use government services and information likely online The % of internet users who the have used the following education online channels household % internet to income interact with the government , by following education and household income policies/issues gov't or gov't SNS to info get
U.S. refugee resettlement drops , falling below Canada in 2018 Number of resettled refugees , in thousands
Figure 2 : Affirmative action for blacks
People with a favorable view of right-wing populist parties in Europe tend to be less happy with the EU % who have a favorable opinion of the European Union among those who Right populist Germany AfD
Half of Americans think society does n't place enough importance on working , but views vary by age , political party % of U.S. adults enough who say society about generally right places too of importance enough on working and having a job
Eight-in-Ten Health Heard about Reform Efforts to Eight-in-Ten Repeal Health Care Reform little Nothing atall
Majority of black Democrats say Trump has made the economy worse Among Democrats and Democratic leaners , % who say , since taking office , Donald Trump 's economic policies have made economic conditions
Roughly four-in-ten Americans have personally experienced online harassment % of USS adults who have experienced
People in many countries have a favorable view of both the U.S. and China Both U.S China but Majority or plurality have favorable views of both U.S. and China Majority or plurality have favorable views of U.S. but not China Majority or plurality have favorable views of China but not U.S
Relatively Few Teen Daters Experience Potentially Controlling or Abusive Behavior % of teen daters who have experienced the following from a currentor former tromanticparter , and whether itoccurred during or after the relationship ... Equally likely to happen DURING and AFTER Demanded to know the passwords to your email Used information posted on the internet against you , to harass or
Gun Views Remain Divided More important to Control gun ownership
Retransmission Fees Provide Larger Share of Broadcast Television Revenues Percent of Share
Niger median is world 's youngest country , with median age of 15 years fold in selected countries and territories in Africa MEDIAN
The most-active Twitter bots produce a large share of the links to popular news and current events websites Share of tweeted links to popular news and currentevents websites posted
Climate change broadly viewed as an important issue among Biden voters % of Biden supporters who say climate change is to their vote in the 2020 presidential election Very important Somewhat important
Mitt Romney Barack Obama
Campaign Information Online Learn about campaign online campaign from Regularly Sometimes Websites & apps of print , TV , radio apps orgs YouTube videos 3 12
Young , Educated , Affli uent Most Likely to Watch Online News Video % US Adults
Most Europeans say Muslims in their country want to be distinct Do you think most Muslims in our country today want to think they want to be distinct from the larger society ? you
AGURE
New Hampshire : Best Candidate In Terms Of Clinton Obama Edwards
Economic Prob lems in the News Housing Crisis 31 Recession 14 Open ended question : What one economic or financial problem have you heard the most about
Figure 1 Change in 18- to 24-Year-Old College Enrollment , 2009- 2010
Young voters less likely than older voters to say they were conta cted by political campaigns via printed mail , email for phone calls % who say before were contacted in the following ways by a candidate 's campaign or a group supporting a candidate in the month before the election
About three-quarters of Americans say undocumented immigrants mostly fill jobs U.S citizens do not want ; a lower share say the same about legal immigrants % who say ..
University presidents
NATO receives mostly positive marks across member states surveyed % who have ain ) opinion of NATO
Germans more likely to say countries will cooperate more after coronavirus crisis ; Americans are split % who say once the coronavirus crisis is over
Views of the Candidates In the Past Few Days '' Barack Obama John McCain Wore Favo rable
British consistently more negative on European Union
Should U.S Keep Troops in Iraq ? Keep troops in until Iraq is stabilized Bring troops home as soon as possible
Syrians Likeliest to Be Syrians Granted Asylum Acceptance rates of 10 largest the applicant groups , the Jan -- June 2015
Figure 1999 to 2007 : Narrows , Democratic Lead Among Latinos Narrows , Then Widens
Democrats are nearly twice as likely as Republicans to say there 's too much economic inequality
Some officers say tough , aggressive tactics are needed with some people and in some neighborhoods % ofofficers saying they with each of the.following statements
Americans care more about having a moral , ethical president than about having a religious president % of U.S. adults who say it is very or somewhat important to them to have a U.S. president who
People are confident they can muse digital gadgets to meet information demands % of U.S. adults who say these statements describe them very well or 'somewhat well to juse the internet and other
Black Americans are underrepresented as newsroom employees in the U.S % of U.S employed adults who are Newsroom employees Note : Based on population ages 18 and older employed in the civilian labor force Non-Hispanic whites and blacks include only single-race respondents . For a definition of newsroom employees .
Measuring News Interest % following each story very closely
In some African countries , sizable minorities of people live in polygamous households % of individuals in polygamous households . by religion Christian Muslim Unaffiliated Folk
High Ratings for UGTT ; Negative Views toward Political Parties Do you have a opinion of
Stocks have outperformed housing during the recovery Percentage change in each index since January 2009
Percent of students following who spend more than one hour each day using the following communication methods 90
PBS NewsHour nonpublic funding makeup
Follow-up action most likely with news that comes through friends ' emails and texts % of news instances through each pathway in which
The shares of adults living in middle-income households fell in many countries in Western Europe % of adults living in middle- income households in1991 and 2010 80 Norway
Millennials : Unmoored from Institutions Percent who consider Percent ofadults in seach generation ofadults who are themselves political independents
Women , Black and Hispanic adults and those with lower incomes more likely than others to think scams occur often % ofU.S adults who think people often pretend to be someone else in order to try to steal people 's personal information
Recent Economic News is . Mix of good and bad news
Conservative Republicans less trusting of information from climate scientists % of USS adults in each group who say they trust climate scientists about the causes of global climate change a lot Some Not too much Not at all
Younger Americans More Skeptical of Requiring Childhood Vaccines % of U.S. adults saying children ) parents thatall should children be alle to should decide required to be vaccinated children ) Parents should decide Should be required
Views on whether life is better today divided by ethnicity and religion in some countries Life in our country today is better than it was 50 years ago for people like me
The Arizona Effect on U.S Favorability in Mexico Pre -Arizona Law Post- -Arizona Law Based on Q7a asked inMexico before and
Younger smartphone click through at same rate as other age groups % of U.S. smartphone owners who their smartphones , % who click
U.S. Favorability in Mexico
What Drives Bush 's Job Approval ? Handling of Foreign policy
The educational gap in motherhood is shrinking gap sever given birth High school for less
Right Direction vs. Satisfac tion Diffference between Satisfaction '' and Right Direction ''
Banks , Corporations , the Wealthy Widely Viewed as Benefiting from Gov't Policies Since Recession % saying government economic policies since the recession have helped each ...
While Less-Educated Adults Are Catching Up , Their Internet Adoption Rates Are Still Below Those of College Graduates
Obama Cabinet , Auto Industry Are Top Stories 22 Obama Wildfires
Urban residents ' local news media more likely to cover their areas , have a lot of influence Among U.S. adults in urban , suburban and rural communities , % who say local news media
Mothers More Likely to See an Uneven Division of Labor at Home % offathers and mothers in households where both parents are employed full time saying Mother does more Father do es more Sha re eq ually Managing children 's schedules/activities Taking care of children when they 're sick
In August , Democrats were more likely than Republicans to view the Supreme Court as ideologically conservative % who say the U.S. Supreme Court has power
Half of cloture votes on presidential nominees were for judges , justices Nominations subject to U.S. Senate cloture votes since 1991 , by position Ca binet secretaries 16 Source : Senate records , Pew Research Center research
More privacy and reputation management on social networking sites % of social networking site users who have taken these steps on their profile 56 %
More Democrats Take Liberal Positions , More Republicans Take Conservative Positions Percent of Republicans with political
Gap between television and online news consumption narrows from 2016 % ofu.S . adults who often getnews on each platform
Budget deficit is seen as less of a problem than in 2011 How seriousa problem is the budgetdefcitfor the country rightnow ? ( % )
After short-lived rebound , views of the EU on the decline again in key European countries Favorable view of EU
Obama 's Job Rating : Better than Bush 's , Worse than Clinton 's % job approvalrating
Most Trump supporters lack confidence that those not legally qualified to vote will be prevented from voting confident each will happen in the November election % who are supporters supporters supporters supporters
Majority of Americans are critical of Trump ' S response to COVID-19 ; nearly half say he is doing spoor job % who rate the job each ofthe following is doing responding to the coronavirus outbreak as
Four-in-ten new marriages involve remarriage
Public sees an arar of global threats , led by ISIS , cyberattacks and North Korea 's nuclear program % who say each is a Major threat Minor threat Not a threat DK
Filipinos approve of Duterte 's handling of both the U.S. and China of the way President Rodrigo Duterte is shandling relations with
Latinos divided about their place in America after Trump 's election % who say they now that Trump has won the election
Digital and non-digital advertising revenue Annual advertising revenue to all recipients , not just news outlets ( in U.S. dollars )
Living Arrangements ofYoung Adults , Living 1968- 2012 % ofadults ages 18 to 31 in each arrang ement
About half of Americans support more federal funding for scientific research % ofU.S . adults who say they would spending for scientific research
Most Satisfied with
Unemployment rates are related to perceptions of national economic conditions in EU countries % who say the current economic situation in their country is bad
Views on abortion by party identification , 2019
Negative views of China tied to perceptions of Beijing 's record on human rights Unfavorable views of China North America
More than half of U.S refugees in 2019 were from D.R Congo and Burma Number ofrefugees entering the U.S. infiscal 2019 , by origin country
Anger and Voting Optimism Drive Democratic Anger Voting Enthusiasm
Where Partisan Divisions Are Largest Social safety net 39 41
Mobile phone non-users from different countries disagree over whether they want a device in the future % of mobile phone non-users who would like to get a mobile phone in the future
Three-in-Four See Occasional Terrorism as Part of Life in Future ( Agree/Disagree ) be oflife Occasionalacts the of terrorism in the ( Agree/Disagree ) U.S. will be part oflife Occasionalacts in the future of
In general . how would you say things are going for the US in Atghanistan -- rota TED : very well , moderately well , moderately badly , ( or ) very badly ) ? Total well Total badly
10 Biggest Critics and Fans of the U.S. Views of the USS
Most users tweeted about timmi gration during once a week or less on average gration during first month of Trump 's presidency % of users who , on average , tweeted about immigration with a link up to Semi-daily 2 but most tweets were posted by more % of immigration-related tweets with a linkfrom
Majority of YouTube users encounter videos that seem false/ untrue , or show people doing dangerous things % ofus adults who use YouTube who that
Ratings for U.S. President in France Do you have confidence do the right in U.S thing President regarding George Bush/Barack Obama to do the right thing regarding George world affairs ?
Less Partisan Views Ruling of Court than After Last Less Year ' Partisan S Health Views Care Ruling of Court Percent rating the U.S. Supreme Court favorably
Only 19 % of Americans generally pick sup cellphone calls from unknown numbers ; women , White adults , folder adults , higher-income adults less likely to do so % of U.S. adults who say they generally when an unknown number calls their cellphone
Public 's Terrorism Worries Hold Steady After Paris Attacks Worried there willsoon be another terroristattack in the U.S . Very Somewhat Not too/Notatall
Figure 1 , Number of online content types purchased by internet users 30 % 25 %
The Number of Book Readers Dips % ofadults who say they read at least one book in whole or in part in the previous 12 months
Maduro receives very negative marks from Venezuelans Views of
Catholics Relatively Evenly Distributed Throughout Country
How frequently Americans discuss politics politics public and public with others ... affairs with figures others How all adults ) frequently Americans discuss politics politics or public affairs with others ... ( all figures based on How all adults ) frequently 80 % Every day At least once At least once Less than
The Selected Reserve
Brazilians Most Concerned Change About Brazilians Global Most Climate Concerned Change % Saying global climate change is a
Racial divide as most white Protestants , white Catholics approve of Trump 's performance . and most black Protestants , Hispanic Catholics disapprove % of U.S. adults who of the way if Donald Trump is reelected in November Trump is handling his job as president
GOP split along ideological lines in views of stricter environmental laws % who say Stricter Stricter environmental laws enviromental laws fand regulations hurt and regulations
Americans closely divided in support for science marches ' goals and whether the events will affect support for science the % of USS adults who say they support or oppose the the science of held protests , this April % of US adults who say the protests , marches Aprilwill and demonstrations about science heldthis Aprilwill
Broad view that big donors have more influence , with contributors and Democrats most likely to say this % who say `` people who give a lot of money to elected officials do not have more influence say than others '' give describes money the country Very well Somewhat well Not too well Not at all well Contributed money to a political candidate or group
More than four-in-ten Republicans say Trump definitely or probably has acted unethically ; about twice as many Democrats say the same % who say that Trump has
Lower-income teens are more likely than teens from higher-income households to use Facebook % of U.S. teens , by annual household income , who say they use Facebook
More now prioritize controlling gun ownership than protecting gun rights % saying it is more important to Control gun ownership
Perceptions of community partisanship align with actual vote returns % who say most of the people in the community where they live supported Most supported Evenly Most supported Donald Trump split Hillary Clinton Total 33 30 22 Among Democrats and Democratic leaners in counties where the two-party vote share was
2014 Partisan Advantages by Year of Birth Among general public MORE DEMOCRATICY MORE REPUBLICAN/ DEMOCRATIC LEANING REPUBLICAN LEANING YEAR OF
Public Recent Interest Mass Shootings in Navy Yard Shooting and Other Recent Mass Shootings in Navy % following news ofeach `` very closely Dec 2012 : Newtown , Conn .
Europeans say immigrants make their countries stronger , yet also worry about increased risk of terrorism Immigrants in your country today Are a burden on our country Make our country
Since 2010 , more adults ages 35 and older live in households with at least three people Distribution of people across household sizes , among different age groups ( %
Better Approach for the US toward Egypt
Number of unauthorized immigrants in Europe peaked in 2016 , then leveled off Range for the estimated number of unauthorized immigrants in millions living in Europe , 2014 2017 5.3
Half of Americans say home broadband is essential % of U.S. adults who say home high-speed internet access is
Nearly half see recent U.S. actions against Russia as aabout pright ' Among those who heard allegations that Russia hacked DNC & Clinton campaign , % who say USS sanctions and Go too far About right Not far eno ugh
Increased Offshore Drilling Support for More Increased Offshore Drilling Support
Stability Trumps Democracy Which is more important ? Dem locracy , even if some political instability Stability , even if not fully dem ocratic
Declining Support for Iran Nuclear Deal % who approve/ disapprove of recent nations nuclear agreement between approve/ Iran , the disapprove US and other nations
Low Job Ratings for Democratic Leaders ; Ratings Even Lower for GOP Leaders % who approve of thejob are doing
News Interest vs. News Coverage 2008 Campaign 31 Economy 28
Many dissatisfied with democracy % who are with the way democracy is working in their country
Americans feel much scolder ' toward Mexico than Canada % who rate on a `` feeling thermometer from 0 ( coldest rating ) to 100 ( warmestrating )
Ukrainians More Positive toward EU , U.S. than Russia
Sharp Rise of Cell Phone Ownership in Select Countries Percent of adults who own a cell phone
Teens cell phone use catching up to adults The percentage of teens and adults who own cell phones , 2004 to 2008
Congressional districts voters , with the largest growth in Latino eligible voters , 2014 - 2017 Latino eligible voter growth Latino eligible voters % Latino among all 2017 ( in thousands ) eligible voters 2017
Less than half of U.S. kids today live in a ‘ traditional ' family
France , Japan , U.S. Out of Step Trade with ooher countries leads tojob creation
Gov't Anti-Terror Policies Have Not gone far enough to protect the country Gone too far in restricting civil liberties
Internet users say digital tech makes them better informed than 5 years digital ago % informed of internet users who say the internet and cells phones helps them be better informed about International news My hobbies personal interests
Half of Americans see their country as the top economic power ; Germans more likely to name China % who say
Record Anti -Incumbency Mood Would like to see the your representative in Congress re-elected in the next your election representative
Print books continue to be more popular than e-books or audio books % of U.S. adults who say they have in the previous 12 months
Majority of PPP loans to newspaper companies were less than $ 150K ; companies receiving larger loans reported more jobs on average than those with smaller loans Average number of newspaper % of panies PPP loans to newspaper com panies that were newspaper
Many Americans say the use of anonymous sources influences their trust in a news story , particularly those who oppose their use % of U.S. adults who say the use of anonymous sources has ( of ) influence on whether they think news stories are credible
Multiracial Population Respondents can be counted as multiracial one of three ways : First ( self ) , if they select two or more races for themselves . Second ( parents ) , if they do not select two or more races for themse Ives but report that at least one or their biological parents was not the same race as them , or select two or more races for at least one of their parents . Third grandparents ) , if they do not fit the definition of multiracial
Women as Bosses : Perceptions and Progress Boss Gender Preference Percent saying they prefer a boss who is an 100 % 75 . 66
About half say it 'does n't matter how stores greet customers for holidays % who say they would preferfor stores , /businesses .to
Many of Trump 's major policies are unpopular globally % who of each policy ofU.S . President Donald Trump
Broad public confidence in how CDC , state and local officials are responding to coronavirus outbreak How confident are you that each is doing a goodjob responding to the coronavirus outbreak ? ( % )
Americans ' and Mexicans ' views of each other U.S. favorability in Mexico
Democrats Close Engagement Gap % given a lotof thought to the election
As Partisan Democratic Gap Closes Criticisms Rise , Partisan Gap Closes Percent saying news storiesare often inaccurate
The influence of science knowledge on energy attitudes depends on politics % of U.S. adults who favor/oppose expanding each energy source Offshore oil and gas drilling Low Medium High
What The Newly Overtime-Eligible Do
U.S. per capita trade deficit with Germany has outpaced that with China
U.S. has more college-educated immigrants than other economically advanced countries Number of immigrants ages 25 and older with a postsecondary diploma or degree , in millions , 2015
Most Democrats , Republicans rate police officers 'warmly , ' but sharp differences in very warm ratings % who rate 100 ( warmestrating ) Very cold Somewhat cold Neutral Somewhat warm Very warm
Shootings Gun Control Don tShift Views on Shootings Gun Control What do you think is more important ?
Online political contributions have grown more common since 2008 , but most donations still occur offline How donors to political candidates , parties , or organizations made their contributions 100 % Donated only online Donated only offline Donated both online
Most See Mix of Good and Bad Economic News Mix of good and bad news
Would decides you to
In April , nearly three-quarters of white liberal Democrats expressed confidence in police officers of confidence in police officers to act in the best interests of the public % who say they have a great deal/fair amount of confidence in police officers to act in the best interests
Most say that the U.S. is and should be the world leader is the world 's leading military power % who say China U.S. 6 % 83 % Note : Don it know responses not shown . For Q15 , `` Russia a and volunteer responses `` Other '' and `` None - not shown . For Q16 ,
News Interest in Terrorism Incidents Abroad : 2001 - 2015 % who followed foreign attacks/incidents very closely British police defuse car bomb in London ( July 2007 ) Atta lcks in Nairobi , Kenya mall ( Se pt . 2013 )
Republicans stee too much regulation of financial industry , Democrats too little Which comes closer to your view ? The government Has gone too far Has not gone far regulating financial enough regulating linstitutions
Health Care Reform : Important But Hard to Follow Do You Think Health Care Reform is important 95
Consumer attitudes & awareness of VolP 40
More Recent Grads Are Producing Mobile Content communication doing this degree work
Support for Path To Citizenship Party Outweighs Support Opposition , Even in Tea Party Should immigrants now living in the USS illegally be eligible for citizenship if they meet certain requirements , or not be eligible for citizenship ?
Public remains closely divided on controlling guns and protecting gun rights % saying it is more important to % saying it is more important to protect the right of Americans to OWN guns
Measuring News Interest Week of November 11 - 16 Percent who followed this story very closely Percent who named story as their most closely followed
Hispanic Population Growth Fueled Mainly by U.S . Births ; Asians by Migration Percent of total population change from 2012 to 2013 accounted for by ( births minus deaths )
Public Is Fond of NASA , College Especially Those Who Went to College
Growing Partisan Gap in Views About Legalization of Marijuana Democrat Independent
Most young adults favor allowing transgender people to use restrooms of their current gender identity If you had to choose , which comes closest to your view ? Transgender people should be
Group Conflicts conflicts % who say there are  very strong '' or `` strong conflicts say between ... Blacks and
Palestinian Opinion of Hamas Declines Do you have a opinion of Hamas ?
Measuring News Interest Week of February 16 - 22 41
opt-out mothers
In Central and Eastern Europe , the young are more popen to gay marriage % who favor/mostly favor allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally
The most-active Twitter bots produce a large share of the links to popular news and current events websites Share of tweeted links to popular news and currentevents websites posted
Among U.S . Adults , Most Support Legali lization , Increased Border Security Undocumented requirements immigrants currently in the U.S. who meet certain requirements should Legislation allowing undocumented immigrants to
numbers of unaccompanied children apprehended in USS
Highest-income Americans especially likely to research new congregations % of US adults in each group who say they have while looking for a new congregation
Younger Americans more skeptical that U.S. impacts world problems positively % who say U.S. efforts usually make Problems in world would world problems worse be worse without U.S .
Around half of Americans decided not to use products or services due to privacy concerns , but this varies by whether they 've experienced a data breach % who say they have recently decided NOT to use a product or service because they were worried about how much personal information would be collected about them
Rising global competition over R & D investment Gross domestic spending on research and development , in millions of constant 2010 U.S. dollars adjusted for purchasing power parity
Partisanship biggest factor in comfort with activities during coronavirus Average percentage point gap in comfort across six different activities by
Google search interest in guns is higher during weeks of Thanksgiving and Christmas Weekly USS Google gun search activity
Shifting Debate debate ? you
Democrats and Republicans differ over whether recent news has been good or bad for Trump % ofU.S adults who say the news for Donald Trump in the past
News Interest
Blacks , Hispanics make up larger shares of prisoners than of U.S. population U.S. adult population and U.S. prison population by race and Hispanic origin , 2017
Threat Posed By Islamic Extremist Groups % who say -Islamic extremist groups area  major threat '' to their country
Policy Outlays by Category
Education of Catholics in New York City , Philadelphia and Washington
Female legislators in both parties more likely to discuss sexual misconduct in their Facebook posts than men in 2017 % of members of Congress who mentioned sexual
News Interest February vs News Coverage
Most say bilateral economic relations with both China and the U.S. are good – but slightly more see China 's economic influence as positive
How Will Your Party Do Next November , Compared with Previous Elections ? % saying their party will do BETTER than inrecent elections . Based on registered voters Republicans/ Republican leaners Democrats ) Democratic lea ners
Is the World Safer Without Saddam ? More dangerous Safer place ULS
U.S . Offensive Millennials More Likely to Support Censoring Offensive Statements About Minorities Support Statements that are offensive to minority groups people from saying these things these things publicly
ISIS and climate change seen as among the threats around the world is a major threatto our country Islamic militant group
News Interest
Women are delaying motherhood through their 20s % of women ages40 to 44 who hadgiven birth by age By their mid 30s , both groups of women were about equally 100 % Women who were 40 - 44 in 1994 were 14 points more likely to be
Big Jump in Internet Phone Callers Percent of internet users who say they sever use a service such as Skype or Vonage to make a phone
News Interest vs. News Coverage 2008 Campaign 20
Britons who increasingly view left-leaning parties favorably increasingly say UK 's role in world has declined The UK plays a less important role in the world today compared plays with 10 years important ago
Public Prioritizes Development of Alternative Energy Sources More importantenergy priorityfor country ( % )
In both parties , ideological gaps on whether opposing partisans share goals % of Republicans who say Democrats probably many of their ooher values and goals % of Democrats who say Republicans probably many of their ooher values and goals
Figure 1
Wide partisan divides over same-sex wedding services and public restroom use by transgender people Ifyou had to choose , which comes closest to your view ? ( % ) wedding services provide should be required to provide those
Milder Confidence in a More Democratic Cuba Over the next severalyears , do you think Cuba will become More democra tic Aboutthe say me as now Less democratic
While trust in news media , parliament and banks varies , most Western Europeans say they trust their military Trust
As in the past , most Americans say the U.S. is intone of the greatest nations Statement that best describes opinion of the U.S. ( % ) US sta nns a above all other countries in the world U.S one of greatest countries along with others There are other co untries that are better than U.S
Within couples , women 's earnings have increased steadily stover the decades relative to their husbands ' % of couples where the Woman earns more Net 13 %
Republicans divided on whether GOP leaders should modify health care law or scrap it entirely Opinion on the 2010 health care law
Digital Advertising Market Grows 2011 - 2013 digitaladvertising revenue , in billions
Publics in 11 emerging economies express widespread concerns about the impact of digital technology on children % of adults who say people should be about children being exposed to harmful or immoral content when using their mobile phones bad influence on children in their country % of parents whose children have a mobile phone who
Two-thirds of Americans expect that robots and computers will do much of the work currently done by humans within 50 years % ofadults who say that in the next 50 years robots and computers will do much of the work currently done by humans but most workers expect that their own jobs will exist in their current forms in five decades % of workers who say the jobs/professions they work in now will/will not exist -in 50 years
India 's religious minorities have been more likely to leave India country population , 2010
Without future immigrants , working-age population in U.S would decrease by 2035 Working-age population ( 25 64 ) , in millions with 2015 to 35
In 2018 vote , sizable gender , race and educational divides % who say they voted for the in the election for House of Representatives 59 40
Three fastest-growing counties by Latino population since 2007 are in North Dakota Latino population growth rate from 2007 to 2014 Williams County , North Da kota
Majority of Americans say they do not generally answer their cellphone for unknown numbers , but many of them do listen to voicemails % of US adults who say they generally when an unknown number calls their cellphone
In Europe , Japan , U.S. , Views of Economic Conditions Returning to Pre- Crisis Levels The currenteconomic situation in our country is good
More Inde pendents Want Their Incumbent Out
Public approval of Affordable Care Act at highest level since it became law of the health care law passed by % who Barack Obama of and Congress in 2010 passed
AIDS and Disease a Tery Big '' Hational Problem AFRICA South Africa Kenrya Uga nda Ghana Tanzania hory Coast Angola Nig eria LATIN AMERICA Hond uras Guatemala
In many countries , views of economy do not align with optimism for the future Current economic
Wide Gaps Among GOP Primary Voters on Planned Parenthood , Compromise With Democrats Among possible Republican primary voters , Among % who would be more/less likely primary to support a candidate who wants to
accepting of homosexuality % saying homosexuality should be accepted by society 70 Catholic 66 Mainline Prot .
News Interest May vs. News Coverage
Latino Voters and Presidential Elections , 1988 to 2012 .
As tablet ownership grows , more use them for e-books Among all e. book readers ages 18 and older , the % who read e- books on each device
Many Americans believe customer reviews and ratings improve consumer experiences % ofU.S . adults who say customer reviews and ratings help
Mo dest Improvements in Views Toward ULS 2007 V2008 2009 % oppose ULS Tanti terror policies  % worried ULS could beco me military threat  % US has negative economic impact
By 2100 , half of babies born worldwide are expected to be born in Africa
Reactions Gay Marriage to Obama 's Support for
Births outside of marriage most common among moms from Latin America % of USS births to mothers who are unmarried , by mother 's nativity and region of birth , 2014
Democratic Share of Presidential Yote , 1950 200B
WinMX , BearShare and Grokster Applica tion Usage Source : comScore Media Metrix
Public Interest 1 % following in Campaign closely ) News Spikes 1 % following very closely )
Before splitting , media companies ' profits were robust Operating proftmargins in the yyear prior to media company 's spinoff but after splitting , publishing arms fared markedly worse than broadcast Operating profitmargins in the year following spinoff
Social media leads among all age groups , but is most prominent among the young news and info about the election
Young Indians Perceive BJP as Better Problem Solvers % 18 - 29 year olds saying which party would do a betterjob
Moms aland Dads , 1965 2011 : Roles Converge , Dads , but Gaps Remain Average number ofhours per week spent on Paid work Housework Child care
Asian children most likely to live with stay-at-home mom , working dad % of children under 18 , by race and ethnicity , living with
Annual number of U.S. executions in 2017 is far below 1999 peak
Percentage of adults with home broadband , by generation 90 % 80 %
Most in religiously mixed marriages say spouse 's religion was not religiously important factor in marriages decision to marry How important a factor was your spouse 's religion in deciding whether to marry them ?
The education gap in marriage continues to grow education
Most women and men say Trump has little respect for women , but more women say he has no respect at all % ofregistered voters who say each candidate has None at all Not too much a fair amount Donald a great deal
Scientists and Public Supportive of Space Station % of U.S. adults and AAAS members saying the space station has been for the country
Those who favor right-wing populist parties more likely to prefer strong economic relationship with Russia the Having a strong economic relationship with disputes Russia is more important than the tough with Russia on foreign policy disputes Among those with a favorable view of Among those with an unfa vora ble view of
Moms Time , Weekdays and Weekends , by Work Status Average number of hours per day spent on
In summer , more school , less socializing for teens today the in teens average daily time use , summer 2003 - 2007 to 2013 - 2017 , in minutes Note : Based on teens ages 15 - 17 Summer data based on the only . `` Socializing '' includes attending parties ,
Economy , Health care , Terrorism Top Issues % of fregistered voters saying each  very important '' to their vote for Congress
No consensus on whether more women in Congress would lead to more effectiveness . transparency or civility % saying that ifthere were more women in the USS . Congress Congress would of dealing with the country 's problems The tone of political d ebate in Washington would be There would be in government
In millions 60 million Syrian conflict
More Democrats than Republicans continue to stee Russia as major threat % who say Russia 's spower sand influence ' are a major threatto the well-being of the United States
Growing generational differences in opinion about immigrants as a strength to the U.S. % who say immigrants today streng then the country because of their hard work and talents
the of undocumented immigrants and crime linked to knowledge about the immigrant population % who say undocumented immigrants living > in the U.S. are living Among those who think most immigrants living in the U.S are here
Americans far more likely than Germans to say military force is sometimes necessary % who that it is sometimes necessary to use military force to maintain order in the world
The Japanese public is split on Prime Minister Shinzo Abe .
Unlike most Americans , six-in-ten Jews know that less than 5 % of U.S. adults are Jewish % who say
Figure 3 Reported Number of Votes Cast , 2008 and 2004
Americans are divided over the type of instruction K-12 schools should provide in the fall % saying that , all things considered , K-12 schools in the area where they live should provide the following type of instruction in the fall days a week Parent of child in elementary , middle or high school COVID-19 deaths sper 100K residents
Effect of Cell Phone Samp les on Presidential Horse Race Estimates
% who have confidence in the U.S. president to do the right thing regarding world affairs
Social media use over time
Technology emerging usage rates increasing in Technology emerging economies . but still lag emerging behind rich countries Adult internet users  Adults owning who report owning a smartphone
Neither speaking Spanish nor having a Spanish last name makes one Hispanic % of self-dentified Hispanics saying thata person needs to considered self-dentified Hispanic ) Latino
A majority of voters are confident in counting of mail , in-person votes ; a third are confident only in in-person % ofregistered voters who say they are person/by absentee or mail-in ballot across the USS will be counted as voters intended ballots not too/not at
The share of Americans who have ever used a dating site or app is on the rise for all marital status groups % ofU.S . adults , by marital status , who say they have ever used a the site or app
Oil Leak Interest Versus Coverage Percent who followed very closely 59
Americans divided on whether it ' S acceptable for the government to track people who have tested positive for COVID-19 through their cellphone % ofus adults who say it is acceptable or unacceptable for the government to use people 's cellphones to track the location ofpeople Who may have had contact positive for the coronavirus To ensure they are complying limiting social contact during
Priests Marrying priests % of Catholics who say the Catholic Church should allow priests togetmarried
News Interest % following each story very closely Which one story did you followmost closely ?
Iran Widely Disliked U.S 68 13
Majority of public from says Trump has done too little to Majority distance himself public from white Trump nationalist groups % who say Trump has done in distancing himselffrom white nationalist
Opposition from Older to Americans Medicare Vouchers Opposition from Older Americans a proposal to change Medicare into a program toward that purchasing would proposal give future private change participants health a credit program toward purchasing give private participants health insurance coverage
Auto thefts most likely to be reported , murders most likely to be solved % of U.S. crimes reported to police in 2019 ( BJS ) Violent victimizations Property victimizations Household burgJany/tespacsing % of reported U.S. crimes cleared by police Property crimes
Polarization and presidential approval : supporters stay loyal , opposition intensifies % approving of president 's job performance , by party EISENHOWER KENNEDY CARTER REAGA N JOHNSON
Generations and `` Selfies '' % saying they have shared aselfie Note Based on all adults N=1.321 . Respondents who knew whats selfie was were asked if they had evershared selfie
News Interest % following feach story very closely
Sharp rise in share of Republicans who support increased spending on anti-terrorism , military defense % who say they would increase spending on
British divided on Brexit and trust in the national government , but Conservative Party supporters say Brexit will be good for UK and trust their leaders
Importance of Maintaining Importance Ancestral Language Maintaining How importantis it to you that future generations of living in the United States be able to speak < your ancestrallang uage > ? ( % ) Hispanics
What Americans Are Hearing About .
News Sources With Highest Levels of Distrust Outside Their Core Audience % who trust and distrust each source Did not get news in past week from source
Few see 'becoming wealthy as essential to their view of the American dream Do you think each is essential , important butnot essential , or not important to your you OWN view of the American dream ? ( % ,
Generally strong support for NATO Views OFNATO Unfavorable Favorable
Global Public Wary of Economy 's Future Over the next 12 months , do you expect the economic situation in our country to Improve Rema in the same Worsen
Around seven-in-ten Americans are confident that hospitals can treat seriously ill people during COVID-19 outbreak % ofU.S adults who are medical needs ofpeople who are seriously ill during the
Nearly appointed six-in-ten current federal judges were appointed by Democratic presidents Share of active judges by party of appointing president
Fertility Rate in Canada by Age of Mother , 1926 - 2011 Number of births per 1,000 women in each age group 250 births
Declining Share of Americans Express Absolutely Certain Believe in God
News Interest
Partisans Say Compromise Give on Shutdown , Partisans But Unacceptable Say Compromise to Give in on on Shutdown , Health Care Among Republicans Republicans in Congress should GOP leaders agreeing to bill without health care changes would be Obama/Democrats in Congress should
Split Senate delegations have become less common since the 1970s U.S. Senate delegations , by party composition Both Rep 14 15 15 12 12 11 11 17 18 18 18 19 21 17 14 15 14 20 19 Split 18 21 21 22 21 24 27
Breadwinner Husband- Homemaker Wife Marriages , by Age of Wife % of married couples
Black officers more likely than whites to say body cams would change behavior of police act appropriately no difference act appropriately
Growing share of college grads are consistently liberal % with political values that are on Consiste untly Lib Mostly Lib Mixed Mostly Cons Consiste intly Cons
The Coming Out Experience : When You Thought , Knew , Told Median age atwhich gay mightbe men , /lesbians bisexuals say they they were or mightbe LGB First thought Knew for sure milow someone
News Interest vs. News Coverage Situation in Iraq 25 2008 Campaign
50 % Say Drones Have Made U.S Safer ; Just 31 % Say Same about Afghan War Has each made U.S. stafer from terrorism , less safe or has n't it made a difference ?
Majority says news media should present facts without interpretation % who say that in covering events , the snews media should
More Americans think location tracking through cellphones wo n't make a difference in limiting the the of COVID-19 than say it would help % of U.S. adults who say during that ifthe government tracked people 's locations the the spread of the virus
Conservative Republicans More Likely to Support all GOP Contenders , but Walker , the Carson Draw Disproportionate Support Among Republican and Republican leaning cinderendentregistered voters , chance would vote for each
Trust and Perceptions of Corruption
We should all be willing to fight Affrom four country , whether it is right Mor
Millennials are the generation most likely to live at home % of 25- to 35-year-olds living in parent ( s ) home Note : `` Living residing in parent ( s ) '' home means residing in a household headed
Remember Exactly Time Where You Were at the Time of Based on those age eight or older at time of event 
About a fifth of newsroom employees live in New York , Los Angeles or D.C. % of U.S. employed adults by metro area , 2013 - 2017 Note : Based on population ages 18
Younger , older Republicans differ over influence of public health evidence on federal policies to control coronavirus % of U.S. adults who say the federal government 's policies to control the spread of coronavirus are by evidence from public health experts A great deal a fair amount Not too much/ Not at all
Young , urban dwellers are most likely to read community blogs The proportion dealing of community internet users within each group who read a blog dealing with community issues in the preceding 12 months
Growth and Change in Well-being
Close state-level contests are nothing new in U.S. presidential elections Number of states where the winning candidate 's popular-vote margin was less than 2 percentage points , by year
Online radio listenership
Energy and Environment Growing Concerns Percent Rating as a `` Top Priority '' Energy Environment
Large majorities express dissatisfaction with Lebanon 's government , politicians % of Lebanese adults who Do not trust the Are pessimistic about the
Tea Borders Party First '' Republicans Approach Favor When should legal undocumented immigrants be a allowed to When apply should for legal undocumented status ?
Fewer than half of voters who have changed parties since 2018 say they follow politics 'most of the time Across five surveys from 2018 to 2020 , those who were
FT-russia-confidence-02
Moms aland Dads , 1965 2011 : Roles Converge , Dads , but Gaps Remain Average number ofhours per week spent on Paid work Housework Child care
Grade Given to the Winning Candidate
Partisans at odds over effects of climate policies on environment , economy % of U.S. global adults who say policies aimed at reducing the effects of global climate change generally Do more good than harm for environment Make no difference for environment Do more harm than good for environment % ofus adults who say policies aimed at reducing the effects of global climate change generally Make no difference to U.S economy
Opinions on Gun Control : 1993- 2012 More important to
Interest Remains in Limited Benghazi Investigation Remains Limited Benghazi Following news about Benghazi and investigation
Figure 1 Internet Use , Figure by Race and Ethnicity , 2006 and 2008
Half of the British Now Want to Remain in the EU
Democrats with less education more likely to split with party on abortion % of U.S. adults who say they agree or do n't agree with their party on abortion policy Among Republicans/ lean Rep .
FIGURE1 Immigrant Share Falls Among Largest Hispanic Origin Groups since 2000 % of each group born outside of the U.S. 64 %
How the American family has changed % ofchildren under 18 living with
Most Americans but a declining share - think the U.S. census will produce an accurate population count % who say the 2020 census will be in accurately counting the number of people living in the U.S .
News Interest vs. News Coverage June 16 - 22 Floods in Midwest 38
Majorities favored the right to allow Americans to have medical data permanently deleted in 2019 % of U.S. adults who thought that all Americans should have the right to have medical data collected by a health care provider permanently deleted by the people or organizations who have that information
Views of the Vietnam War and Military Leaders
2 - 22-2016 2 - 55-29 PM
Steps the govemment has inta ken since 9/11 have To prevent attacks like the one in Boston , there is .
The View From the Top The richest 20 % of own 88 9 % of all wealth  U.S. families ...
How Will Your Party Do Next November , Compared with Previous Elections ? % saying their party will do BETTER than inrecent elections . Based on registered voters Republicans/ Republican leaners Democrats ) Democratic lea ners
When Bush Took Office in 2001 Lose influence Gain influence Republican
Whites , college graduates and older adults are more likely to trust in others % ofus adults who say most people
Why get married ? % of the married general public saying is a very important reason to get married
Public Still Largely Positive About the Contribution of Science to Society , But Uptick in Negative Views % of U.S. people adults saying science has made life leasier or more difficult.for most people More difficult % of USS adults saying effectof science negative on the quality of Feach area in the US has been mostly positive or negative
Majorities view a number of immigration policy goals as 'important '' but not a U.S-Mexico border wall % saying that each is a goalfor US immigration policy
Wide Partisan Divide in Overall Views of Immigrants ' Impact on the U.S . Which comes closer to your view ? Immigrants today ( % ) Burden country Strengthen
Americans express only moderate trust in most news source types % of U.S. adults who trust the information.from National news worgs Local news forgs and continue to have much lower trust in social media % of web-using U.S. adults who trust the information .
Most Think Food Near
Policies Netanyahu 's , toward Abbas ' the U.S. Disapprove Approve
Legal and unauthorized immigrants make up a significant share of workers in some occupations % of workers in occupations who are immigrants , 2017
In Indonesia , about three-in-ten have confidence in Among Indonesians Favorable view of the U.S
Large majority says 'heated rhetoric by politicians raises risk of violence % who say elected officials using heated or aggressive language to talk about certain people or groups makes violence against those groups more likely
Racial and ethnic gaps shrink in U.S. the population Sentenced federal and state prisoners by race and Hispanic origin , 2007 to 2017
Hispanic share of active-duty ranks rises % ofu.S . active duty militaryforces that are
Continuing dissatisfaction with the way the are going in the country today % this saying they today are with the way things are going in this country today
Republicans have more confidence in elected officials to act in public 's interests Among % who have confidence in
For first time since the economic crisis , Americans more positive than negative about economy The current economic situation in our country is
The Internet and Campaign 2000 Percent of Ameri cans Getting Campai gn News Online
Sub-Saharan Africa sees biggest involving religion in 2015 Median scores on the Social Hostilities Index , by region
Abortion , pregnancy rates have declined among teenagers in the U.S Rates per 1,000 females ages 15 to 19
Catholics ' Hopes for the Next Pope Percentage ofus . Catholics who say the next pope should . Do n't know 3
Nearly one-in-four Americans report the a disability Does a health problem , disability or handicap currently keep you from participating fully in currently work , school , keep housework you participating or ooher activities ? fully No Among those who report a disability am deaf or have serious
Obama Palestinian 's Role Conflict in Resolving Should Israeli- Be . Obama Palestinian Conflict Resolving Should Israeli- Be .
the majorities say local election officials and poll the workers did a good job in the 2018 election % who Poll workers in your community Say poll workers in their commmunity did their jobs Were confident poll workers in their community would do a good job Officials who run elections in your local area Were confident local election officials would do a good job Officials who run elections in your state Were confident state election officials would do a good job Officials who run elections across the United States
News Coverage vs. News Interest
Countries with higher GDP per capita less likely to tie belief in God to morality % who say it is necessary to believe in God in ooder to be moral and have good values 100 % Kenya Indonesia
Do You Consider Yourse If ... National enizen first Muslimffret 81 46
Supreme Favorability Court 's Declining Supreme Favorability Court 's Overall view of the USS Supreme Court
Majorities across Generations Oppose Cuts in Social Security Benefits % saying , thinking about tlong term future of Social Security ,
the people far less likely than older adults to follow news about midterms % who say they have followed news about congressional elections in their state or district
People in wealthier countries are more likely to get news online daily Use the internet to getnews atleastonce a day Correlation : 0.79
Black adults are more likely than other groups to see their race or ethnicity as central to their identity % in each group who say being important to how they think about themselves
Japanese believe that to be Japanese , people should speak Japanese , be born in Japan How important do you think isfor being truly Japanese ?
News Interest vs. News Coverage
Views of the Candidates 'n the Past Few Days Barack Obama John McCain
Nearly Economy Half Hearing Mostly Bad News Nearly About Economy Half Hearing
Multiple-victim Homicides Rise , But Are Still a Small Share of All Homicides Homicides with three or more victims , as % ofall homicides
Negative Ratings for U.S. , but Most Want Better Relations
Who Wants to Be the Boss ? boss , % saying they would someday like to bea boss , saying top manag they er someday Millennial
Divide on Keystone Pipeline in Canada Do you building would the Keystone XL pipeline that would transport Keystone oil from Canada 's oil sands region to refineries in the U.S. ?
John McCain viewed favorably by Republicans and Democrats % who have a view of John McCain
Social media users say it is easy for sites to identify their race and interests % ofU.S adult social media users who say it would be for social media sites to figure out their
Divisions Older over Medicare Proposal : Divisions Older and over Attentive Medicare More Proposal : Opposed Change participants Medicare into credit program that purchasing would give Change hea future 1th participants a credit program toward purchasing give private hea 1th participants insurance coverage ?
News Interest vs. News Coverage British hostages 21 Situation in Iraq 20
Germans and Americans both skeptical of China 's commitment to personal freedoms ; Germans also doubt U.S. commitment to civil liberties personal freedoms of its people ?
Republican Party Districts Party Now Viewed Negatively in Tea Republican Party Districts Party General Public Tea Party districts
Is Aging a Problem in Your Country ? % saying the growing number ofolder people is a  major problem ''
Republicans and Democrats mostly but not always agree with their party 's issues positions % political who say they tend to agree with the positions of their party on political issues a Agree with the Republican Party Almost More than half About half Less than half Agree with the Democra ric Party
Trends in Podcast Downloading Total have ever downloaded a podcast to listen to intor view itlater
Buddhists and 'nones ' are the least likely to live in two-parent families % of individuals in each household type , all countries combined
Measuring the Public 's Priorities : Stimulus vs. Deficit Pew Research Center June 18 - 21 priorities If you were setting the priorities you for setting the Spending more to help the economy recover government would these days would you days place on . [ ROTATED ] would a higher you priority Reducing the budget deficit place on . [ ROTATED ] higher CBS News New York Times , June 12 16 The federal the government national should spend money to NBC News Wall Street Journal , June 12 to 15
Figure 4 1999 to 2008 : Democratic Lead Among Latinos Narrows , Then Widens
Checking for GM Food Labeling , by Key Demographics % of U.S. adults who say they look for GMlabeling when food shopping Always Sometimes Not too often Never 31 25
Share of young women disconnected from school or work has fallen significantly in recent decades % of18- to 24-year-olds neither enrolled in school or working Women
News Interest vs. News Coverage Health care reform
Revenue continues to rise for cable channels Projected annual revenue in USS dollars $ 5 billion
News Interest vs. News Coverage Michael Jackson 29 Obama in Russiafitaly 12 Health care reform 11
Public split on whether making it harder to sown guns would cut mass shootings % who say ifmore Americans owned guns , there would be % who say ifitwas U.S. , harder for people to legally
Americans look to online companies to address harassment on their platforms % ofus . adults who say people being harassed or bullied online is a major % who say the most effective way to address online harassmentis
Professional learners : 63 % of workers ( 36 % of all adults ) got job-related training in past year % offull- and part- time workers who took a course or got training for the following purposes in the past 12 months To help get a raise or promotion at work
Warren and Harris are feach named by about one-in-five Democrats as their second choice for the nomination % of Dem/Lean Dem voters who name as their second choice for the Democratic nomination ( among those who named afirst choice ) IOPEN ENDI
For Working Dads , Time Spent with Kids and Parenting Success Go Hand-in-Hand % offathers saying they are doing a job as a parent Among those who spend
About half of U.S adults say the current number of COVID-19-related restrictions in their area is about right % who say there should be activity because of the outbreak in their area
Has the Nasdaq Really Recovered ? Daily close of the Nasdaq Composite Index ( nominal and inflation-adiusted )
Most Not Ruled Tea Party Out Voting Republicans for Romney Have Not Ruled Out Voting for Romney Based with on Rep the and Tea Rep-lea ning registered voters they who agree very likely to vote in primary ( N=208 ) Support Chance No chance DK
While most Americans say schools should provide computers to at least some students during outbreak , computers parties divided on if this should be done for all % ofU.S . adults who say that K-12 schools have a responsibility to provide in order to help them complete schoolwork at home during the coronavirus outbreak
Library Lovers ' community activities % of Americans ages 16 and older in each group who do each activity regularly Go to concerts Visit museums , None of these
Among online daters , women are more likely than men to see online dating as unsafe % ofonline dating users who say that online dating is a
the Racially Congregations Diverse Becoming More Racially Diverse Among Americans who attend houses of worship , % who attend places where
Ownership of other devices
Majorities Oppose Most Deficit Reduction Proposals
Figure 1 Demographic by Race and Ethnicity , 1988 to 2008
the Few find that when they talking to those with the views , they they have more in the common than they thought % who disagree say that when they talking about politics with people politically than they they thought
Obama 's Mixed Ratings on Issues Do you approve handling or disapprove of the way Barack
Education Important for Getting Ahead On a scale ofo to 10 , how importantis to get ahead in life ? Percent saying  10 very important ''
U.S. Favorability in Mexico Favorable Unfavorable
Most Lithuanians are Catholics % who identify as
% who say It 's important to me to live in a place where
Majority of Germans Prefer Strong Ties with U.S .
Across educational groups , Republicans give colleges & universities low ratings % who say colleges and universities have a positive effect on the way things are going in the country
People Have Varying Views About When It Is OK Or Not OK To Use Their Cellphones % of adults who believe itis OK or not to use a cellphone in these situations Generally not OK Generally OK
Main Source of Government and Political News % whose main source for news about government and politics is
Fewer Alternative Republicans Energy Research Back More Alternative Republicans Energy Research 84 Democrat 75 Independent
Americans continue to lose faith in Xi % who say they thing have in Chinese President Xi Jinping to do the rright thing regarding world affairs
Foreign-built factories popular among Indian public
Party Ratings of Personal Finances Percent rating own finances as excellent or good
Different Questions , Slightly Different
Suspected bot accounts share more links to popular political sites with an ideologically centrist or mixed audience by of media outlet popular sharer ideology score posted
U.S Population in 1966 , by Race and
Fewer than half of crimes in the U.S. are reported , and fewer than half of reported crimes are solved % of crimes Reported to police ( BJS )
Europeans divided fover whether parts of neighboring countries belong to them % who that there are parts of neighboring countries that really belong to us
Few See Using Contraceptives as Morally Unacceptable unacceptable % who say using contraceptives ismorally unacceptable say using
Partisan Gaps on Environment and Global Warming % saying isa top priority Protecting the environment Dea ling with global warming
Globally , many expect economic conditions to worsen in the next year % who expect the economic situation in their country to over the next 12 months
% ofall teens 13 to 17 who use More than one social media site 71 % Facebook 71 Snapchat 41 Twitter 33 Google+ 33 Tumblr 14 Different social media site 11
Ahead of referendum , most Brits want to reclaim powers from EU Which statement best describes your views about the future of the European Union ? should transfer
Air Pollution and Climate Change Worry Indian Public Air pollution is a very big problem Very concerned about Global climate
In Europe , more concern about Russian influence than that of U.S or China is a major threat to our country
Using Mexicans Army Support Fight
Top Priorities in Election 2008 Economy Education Health care
a large minority majority of tweets come from a small large minority majority of tweeters Share ofall tweets from U.S. adult users created by
the views of its major allies . Agree
Majorities across racial and ethnic groups say colleges should not consider race in admissions % saying race or ethnicity should be a in college admissions decisions
Majority of public says Trump 's election has led to worse race relations relations in the USS
U.S. vs. China favorability Favorable view of U.S. U.S .
Fortune 500 board members
Views of U.S . Global Importance and Power Fall to 40-Year Low U.S. role today as world leader is
Republicans , Democrats hold opposing views on the Affordable Care Act % who approve of the 2010 health care law
Widening gap between Republicans and Democrats on why people are rich and poor % who say a person is rich generally % who say a person is spoor because they worked harder than generally because ofa lack ofeffort
Most Think History Will Judge Ford as Average history How do you think each of president , the following above presidents will go down below in Outstanding/Above averag 2 Average Below average/Poor
Despite Santorum ' S Recent Victories , Public Hears More About Romney Regardlessof whom you might prefer , which Republican candidate 50 Romney Regardlessof have you heard the most a bout in the news recently ?
Indians say politicians are corrupt but that Indian democracy allows freedom of speech The statement describes India No matter who wins an
Reference 2.0 : Wikipedia Soars as Encarta Dwindles
Americans see too little federal action on climate change , back range of policies to reduce its effects % ofus adults who say Global climate change is affecting Favor leach of the following proposals to reduce the effects of climate change
Among police , negative views of media are linked to feelings of frustration , anger on the job % of rofficers saying Strongly agree Do notstrongly agree Source Survey oflaw enforcementofficers conducted May 19-Aug
Young people , college grads less likely to say financial regs have gone too far Which comes closer to your view ? The government
Figure 1 U.S . Immigrant Popula tion Still Growing , While Unauthorized Immigra tion Slows ( in millions )
We Should All be Willing to Fight For Our Country , Right or Wrong
Large majority of liberal Democrats feel excited about several 2020 candidates % who say Only enthusiastic about Several candidates Among those who follow what 's
Percentage of US Adults Invested in the Stock Market Do you , personally , or jointly with a spouse , have any money invested in the stock market right now either in an individual stock , a stock mutual fund , or in a self-directed 401 ( k ) or IRA ?
Majority of European students learn English in school ; some in U.S study Spanish % ofall primary and secondary students in Europe who studied % ofall U.S. primary and secondary students who
FIGURE2 As Unauthorized Immi grant Population Growth Has Slowed , Median Length of Residence Has Grown Adult median duration of residence in USS 15 years
Millennial – Party ID
Most See Mix of Economic News Mixof good and bad
Americans say the U. S. is the world 's leading economy , but Germans think China is is the world 's leading economic power
Percent following each Which one story did you
Republican leaners rate the GOP as less conservative than do Republicans % who place Republican Party 's ideology on 11-point scale Republicans Among ... 35 7 . 4
Most frequent viewers say crime shows and movies create a favorable image of working in science fields % of U.S. adults who say each fworking of the following technology types of shows and movies impression of fworking in science , technology and medicine gives a SHOWS , MOVIES ABOUT CRIMINAL SHOWS/MOVIES ABOUT HOSPITALS AND MEDICAL SETTINGS % impression of U.S. adults who say science science , fiction technology shows andmovies give a impression of the future of science , technology and medicine
Hispanics are the nation 's youngest major racial/ethnic group
Hawaii 's Racial Diversity % of the population by race/ethnicity ( 2013 ) UNITED STATES
Widespread Opposition to Drones Disapprove Approve Kenya S. Africa
Most of Now Nuclear Oppose the Increased Use of Nuclear Oppose Power
the likely to and experience U.S.-born discrimination Hispanics more the likely to experience discrimination % who say they have regularly or occasionally experienced discrimination or have been treated unfairly because of their race or ethnicity
About four-in-ten who have heard of Latinx describe it as a gender inclusive term Selected responses to an open-ended question asked of survey In an open-ended question among respondents who have heard of Latinx , % who mention Latinx is respondents who say they have heard of Latinx Latinx anyone who has Latin or Hispanic heritage including anyone who is gender fluid , gay , lesbian bisexual , transgender . -Woman , 42 Itis a ridiculous portmanteau that does n't really work with a romance language wherein nouns are gendered it is also supposed to be an all-inclusive term for people of Latin be embraced by the general Latino community . This term
Democrats ' support for Keystone XL pipeline plummets building the Keystone XL pipeline % who say they Among Rep/Rep Lean Among Dem/ Dem Lean
Conservative Republicans increasingly concerned state restrictions will not be lifted quickly enough public % who say their greater concern is that restrictions on public activity imposed by state governments in response to the coronavirus will be
Interest in 2014 Midterm Elections Trails That of Years Past % who say they have followed news about this year 's congressional elections `` very closely ''
Gun Views Remain Divided More important to Control gun ownership
Half of Americans say more people do n't pursue STEM degrees because of the difficulty of the subjects the % of U.S. degrees adults who science , say the technology , main reason many young people do n't pursue the the think degrees
More Have Confidence in Obama than McCain 84 of
Percent of the younger than 15 and 65 and older in the USS
Germans agree that France and U.S. are top foreign policy partners is the most or second- most important partner for German foreign policy
Republicans divided by income in views of government help for the poor , middle class and wealthy How much help does the federalgovernment provide to each group ? ( % )
Younger adults better able than their elders to correctly classify factual and opinion statements that appeal to the left and right % ofus . adults in each age group who correctly classified seach statement as factual or opinion Spending on Social Security , Medicare , and Medicaid make uu the largest portion of the U.S federal budget  Immigrants who are in the U.S illegally have some rights President Barack Obama was born in the United states  Health care costs per person in the U.S are the highest
Measuring News Interest Week of April 28 -May 4 63 30 43
Most stay with their party , but some leave and return , while others 'defect ' % who identified with/leaned toward a party in December 2015 who as of March 2017 Note : Refusals not shown , Mar . 2017 ,
About two-thirds of veterans say the war in Iraq was not worth fighting % of each group who say , considering the costs to the United States versus the benefits to the United States , the was/has been
Measuring News Interest Week of April 16
New Jersey Gubernatorial Votes , 2009 and 2013 Percent voting for 2013 Election
Hispanic household income rises in 2015
In recent years , rising reports of youth depression % ofyouths ages 12 to 17 experiencing in the past year
Many Americans unsure if states are still holding Democratic primaries
Good dip domacy is the best way to ensure peace
Racial and Ethnic Differences % saying each is especially impor tantto teach children Hispa nic
Nearly Two-Thirds of Libertarians Favor Legalizing Marijuana % who say
Bush Job Approval Among Independents
Global Views of the United States U.S .
As News Job about News Prices Has Improved , Has Worsened News about News Prices Improved , Has Worsened Percent hearing mostly bad news about ..
Two-thirds of Republicans favor sending U.S ground troops to Iraq and Syria % who say they would the US sending ground troops to fightIslamic militants in Iraq and Syria
Where Immigrants Came the Then and Now % ofus immigrants born in each region 27 ASIA
Fewer Report Hearing About Iran Agreement Than in Mid-July % who say nuclear they have heard on Iran 's nuclear they program
Views Demographics about the Space Station , by Key Demographics the % of U.S. adults who say the space station good has beena the investmentfor the country or not a good investment Not a good investment Good Investment
This decade will likely be the first in at least 160 years in which American households have more people Average number of people per household
Most people across Europe favor separating church and state % who say Religion should be kept separate policies from government separate policies Mandatory church tax
In Public 's View , GOP-Led Congress Fails to Impress % who say in Congress are keeping campaign promises .. Reps 1995 Dems 2007 Reps 2011 Reps 2015 In itsfirst 100 days , has new Congress accomplished ...
Almost public half of Hispanic college students attend public two-year schools Postsecondary enrollment by race/ethnicity and school type , 2014
Age Predictor is the Most Participation Powerful Age Predictor is the of Most Participation Powerful 0.35 Age
In Public 's View , GOP-Led Congress Fails to Impress % who say in Congress are keeping campaign promises .. Reps 1995 Dems 2007 Reps 2011 Reps 2015 In itsfirst 100 days , has new Congress accomplished ...
the GOP primaries , regular churchgoers were less supportive of Trump the than infrequent attenders regular Patterns of support for Donald Trump among Republican and Republican- -leaning registered voters who attend religious services
Public unsure if video games portray minorities and women poorly % ofall adults who think the following qualities are
No Change in Views of Health Care Law
Public remains supportive of same-sex marriage ; wide partisan gap persists % who allowing gays and lesbians to marry legally Same-sex Supreme marriage Court Supreme Court decision Oppose
Most Pakistanis believe government is making progress against extremists Is against the Pakistani government losing making progress in things the fight against extremistgroups , losing ground or are things about the same as they have been in the past ?
Growing support in both parties for more spending on rebuilding roads , bridges and highways
Majorities expect the wealthy to gain infl uence and the poor to lose influence with Trump as president % who say each group will
The Internet and Campaign 2000 Percent of Americans Getting Campaign News Online
Democrats , independents roughly twice as likely as Republicans to stee police as enforcers % saying they see police in this country more as Source Survey ofu.s category adults conducted Aug 16-Sept 12 2016 .
Race , education , party linked to how men see their masculinity % of men describing themselves as manly or masculine
News Interest fand Coverage News Interest Economy
in Four Negative Years
Top 10 countries of origin of foreign students in the U.S. , 2016
Tea Party Critical Reps , of Boehner Non-Tea in Party October Reps More Party Critical Reps , of Boehner in Party October Favorable Unfavorable
Figure 8 Hispanics Disapprove of Immigration Enforcement Actions
Broad Majorities See Inequality as a Problem
In the U .S. , Hindus have the most years of the schooling .S. , Hindus Average years of formal schooling , by religion Hindus 15.7 years
Growing share of Republicans express little or no confidence in Mueller to conduct a fair investigation confident that Robert Mueller will conduct afair % who are investigation into confident Russian involvement in the 2016 election afair
Who Wants to Be the Boss ? % saying they would like to bea boss , top manager someday
Measuring News Interest Week of December 1 - 7 42
Majority of Americans say science has a mostly positive impact on society % ofU.S adults in each group who say science has had a effect on society
President Trump 's approval in recent polls varies by population surveyed Trump 's approval rating among
More Americans view monitoring climate or asteroids as top NASA priorities than do so for sending astronauts to the moon or Mars % of U.S. adults who say each should be a
Typical Days Common in Europe ; Good Days in Africa , Latin America and U.S. How would you describe your day today ?
Economics color whether Americans see the U.S. as financially dominant % who say the U.S. is the world 's leading economic power Among those who say the economic situation is Among those who say global economic conditions ware a
Most Russians do not believe their government tried to influence the 2016 U.S. election
News Interest vs News Coverage November 17 23
Modi Seen Favorably by Most Groups
Ethnic Diversity More Important for Liberals , Faith Community More Important for Conservatives % saying each would be importantin deciding where to live Consistently liberal 76
Support for Obama 's Plan to Delay Troop Pullout
Middle East Sympathies , 1978 - 2014 In Palestinians the dispute between Israel sympathize and the Palestinians dispute with who more ? do you ( % ) sympathize Sympathize more ( % ) with Israel , by party with more ? ( % )
News Interest Which one story did you follow most closely ? Afghanistan
Most Americans say the internet has been mostly a positive thing for them and society , but more say it 's been good for them , than society % ofU.S . adults who say the internet has mostly been a for
More Americans continue to be  frustrated ' with the government than fangry or basically content Feeling toward the federalgovernment ( % )
News Interest vs News Coverage November 10 to 16
Maintaining Benefits Trumps Deficit Reduction 58 Keeping Social
Americans and Germans have similar concerns about global threats is a major threat to our country
Age profile of cellphone samples improves as landline samples continue to gray Unweighted % of interviews.rom each sample
Americans See a Variety of Problems in Relationship with China How seriousof aproblem is
Record Gap in Party Favorability Ratings Democratic Party Republican Party
News Interest vs. News Coverage News Interest
Germans Want Germans to Negotiate Trade Deals
India 's Confidence in Obama Rises How much confidence thing do you have in PresidentObama to do the right thing regarding world affairs ?
The terms Latinos use to descr ibe their identity differ across immigrant generations % saying they most often use to identify themselves
Public 's policy priorities for 2018 % who say is a top priority for Trump and Congress
College Older , Education , Ages 25 and Older , 2010 % with a bachelor 's degree or more U.S Asian groups
No Cabinet Secretary Has Been Nominated for President Since Hoover in 1928 Presidential nominees by highest previous office held
Federal agencies viewed favorably % saying they have a
South Korea , Japan see U.S. as world 's leading economic power ; Europeans say it 's China % who say is the world 's leading economic power
News Interest Vs. News Coverage News Interest News Coverage Economy
Home broadband penetration by community type
U.S. veterans in their prime working years generally more likely than non-veterans to be employed Employment-to -- o -- 0 population ratio , veterans ages 25 - 54 ( not seasonally adjusted )
A majority of online daters think it is very common for users to lie to appear more desirable % ofonline dating users who say on dating sites and apps is very common People lying about more desirable
Midte rm Election Poll Accuracy ( Gallup & Pew election weekend LV estimates )
About 7 % of U.S. adults could be considered multiracial in 2015 2.6 % Note : Respondent could be counted as multiracial in one of three second ( parents ) , If they did not report two or more races for themselves but reported that at least one of their biological parents was not the same race as them or selected two or more races for at
& Knowledge Symbols in Pictures , Maps , Graphs & Symbols Percent who were able to identify . Star of David as symbol associated w/ Judaism  Twitter logo a US map highlighting the states Obama won in 2012 Photo of John Boehner Graph of national unemployment rate Washington asa state that legalized gay marriage Photo of Eric Holder as the Attorney General
Divided Views of Gov't Aid to Poor % saying
By Any Measure , Joblessness Is Falling but Still Historically High Seasonally adjusted RECESSION
News Coverage vs. News Interest Gulf Coast oil leak 33
Americans Less Convinced Trade Is Growing trade and business ties with other countries are a good thing
Public continues to hold favorable view of the United Nations % who have a view of the United Nations Favorable
Half of Democratic voters in 2018 were college graduates , compared with 35 % of Republican voters % composition of those who voted for Democratic and Republican candidates
the adults in both parties more likely to say it would be acceptable if another country became as militarily powerful as the U.S. % who say U.S. policies should try to keep it so America is the only military superpower
Both parties have lost confidence and trust in public 's political wisdom % political very great/good deal of trust and confidence in political very great/good wisdom of American people
Canadians Consistently Hold Favorable View of U.S Views of the USS
What the Public Knows Percent who know.n Branches of Islam Shia andm ? ( The Sunni ) 62 John IncCain represents what state ? ( Arizona ) 56 Hugo Chavez is president of I ( Venezuela ) 50 Declared independence from Serbia ? ( Kos ovo ) 46 Chairs Democratic Nat'l Committee ? it . Dean ) 40 Chairs Federal Reserve Bank ? ( Ben Bernanke ) 35 U , St troops killed in Iraq ? ( Around 4,000 ) 28
Public 's Views of Recent Economic News % hearing
Few See Their Economy as Doing Well The current economic situation in our country is Advanced
U.S . Hiring Rate is Flat Seasonally adjusted , as a percentage of total employment
Voters Paying Less Attention to Presidential Race Than Eight Years Ago in 2016
And Regulations Too Should the government . food/drug Prevent misleading advertising food/drug Prevent misleading advertising
Student While Loan Delinquencies Have Risen While Others Have Fallen Percentage of total balances that are 90 days or more past due 10
Ted Cruz 's Party Reps , Popularity Rises among Others Tea Party Reps , Falls among Others
Broad Support for Tougher Sanctions Against Russia Opinions aboutthe U.S. %
Strong Army Support Fight Drug for
News Interest % following each story very closely Which one story did you follow most closely ?
Increase in mobile news use driven by those with lower incomes % of U.S. adults with a household income of sever get news on a mobile device
Little Confidence in Putin How much confidence do you have in Russian President Putin to do the right thing regarding world affairs ? Canada U.S
Most populist parties deeply disliked View of Right populist parties Unfavorable Favorable Five Star Movement ( IT } 
Obama Holds Credibility Edge on Deficit Issue How comes much to dea confidence lling with do the youhave federal budget in eech deficit ? to do the
Erdogan Favorability Falling Favorable views of Turkish Prime Minister Erdogan
Population Growth of the World 's Largest Religions in India Population projections , 2010 - 2050 1.8 billion
Bush Job Approval State of the Nation
Little change in views of immigration goals since 2016 , though more Republicans say it 's important to take in refugees from violent countries % who say each is a very/somewhat important goal for U.S. immigration policy Establish a way
How Public Sees rob Presidential Campaign Too negative Not too negative
Christmas and holiday traditions by generation % holiday of each generation who plan to
Younger adults less concerned they will get COVID-19 more concerned they might unknowingly spread it % who say they are Will get COVID- 19 fand
Median Adjusted Household Householder , Income by Race/ Ethnicityof Householder , 1967 - 2011 in2012 dollars $ 90 000 $ 80 000
In U.S. , more food going to waste Food waste generated per person per day , in pounds
Voter Turnout Rates by Age in Presidential Elections , 1988 2012
Europeans see China as world 's dominant economic power % who say is the world 's leading economic power Most common choice Japan ELU
GOP retains advantage on terrorism ; Democrats now lead on foreign policy Which party could do a better job dealing with
Sharp rise in Democratic support for conducting all elections by mail % who favor conducting all elections by mail Source : Survey of U.S adults conducted April 7 - 12 , 2020
Kenyans Opinions Prior to
doubled national news outlets
Republicans are more likely than Republican-leaning independents to view immigrants as a 'burden ' on the country % who say the country % who say immigrants
News Interest vs. News Coverage News Interest 2012 elections
